Honorary Graduates | Alumni Community | University of LincolnAn honorary degree is the highest honour that the University of Lincoln bestows. A small number of honorary degrees are awarded annually, to those who have made a major contribution to their chosen field at national or international level. The University also awards Honorary Fellowships, to those who have served the University in an outstanding capacity as members of staff or governors, and are usually given upon their retirement from their post.
Honorary Graduates of the University of Lincoln
John Sergeant - Honorary Doctor of Letters 2013
John Sergeant is one of the nations most distinguished journalists. He has reported from more than 25 countries for ITV and the BBC, for whom he was Chief Political Correspondent for 12 years. In September 2013 he became an Honorary Doctor of Letters at the University of Lincoln.
Dame Stephanie Shirley - Honorary Doctor of Science 2014
s most celebrated entrepreneurs and philanthropists. The Shirley Foundation is now one of the top 50 grant-giving foundations in the UK.", 'Dr Candice Pellett - Honorary Doctor of Science 2016
s Nurse and was awarded OBE in 2014 for her services to healthcare. Dr Pellett became an Honorary Doctor of Science at the University of Lincoln in 2016.", 'Reginald D Hunter - Honorary Doctor of Arts 2018
Stand-up comedian and actor Reginald D Hunter was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Arts degree at the Graduation Ceremony of University of Lincoln on 24 January 2018. The famous American actor, writer and comedian is well-known for his appearances in various TV shows such asHave I Got News For YouandThe Unbelievable Truth.
Robert Webb - Honorary Doctor of Letters 2018
Born in Lincolnshire, Robert Webb is a comedian, actor, and writer. He wrote and starred in the comedy sketch show Peep Showwhich was the longest running sitcom in Channel 4 history and received numerous awards and accolades for this work. Robert received the award Doctor of Letters in September 2018.
Willi Meixner - Honorary Doctor of Engineering 2018
Willi Meixner, Chief Executive Officer of the Power and Gas Division at global engineering giant Siemens AG, received the award Doctor of Engineering, honoris causa from the University of Lincoln on 24 January 2018 in a ceremony held at the impressive 11th Century Lincoln Cathedral.
Sophie Wells MBE - Honorary Doctor 2019
Sophie Wells MBE is a Lincolnshire-born dressage rider and Paralympic gold medalist.Sophie became the first para rider to compete on an able-bodied championship team at the Young Rider Europeans 2010 and 2011. The University of Lincoln awarded her with an Honorary Doctorate in September 2019.
John Hegarty - Honorary Doctor of Arts 2019
The University of Lincoln awarded Sir John Hegarty Honorary Doctor of Arts, honoris causa, in September 2019. John is widely considered one of the most influential voices in the advertising industry, having been a founding partner of creative partnership, Saatchi and Saatchi. In 2007, John was presented with a knighthood by the Queen for his services to the advertising and creative industries.
David Ross - Honorary Doctorate 2019
David Ross is best known for co-founding the Carphone Warehouse and is also a prolific philanthropist, having set up the David Ross Foundation which makes charitable donations to a range of educational, community, and cultural initiatives. In September 2019, David became an Honorary Doctor at the University of Lincoln.
Sir Stuart Peach - Honorary Doctorate 2020
Air Chief Marshal Sir Stuart Peach is the 32nd Chairman of the Military Committee of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO); the most senior and longest standing military structure in the Alliance. He was bestowed an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Lincoln in 2020.
Michael Betton - Honorary Doctorate 2020
The University of Lincoln presented Michael Betton with an Honorary Doctorate in 2020. Michael is the founder and CEO of the Lincs FM Group. Formed in 1991, the radion station quickly became the local market leader. Under his guidance, the group grew, ultimately operating eight services in Lincolnshire, the East Midlands and Yorkshire - recognised for their commitment to local news and information.
The following list provides the names of all of our distinguished honorands, whom we congratulate and welcome as an integral part of the University of Lincoln Alumni community.


Alumni Community | University of LincolnLincoln for Life
When you graduate from the University of Lincoln you will become part of our global alumni community, which is made up of more than 120,000 graduates from across 135 countries. As a graduate of the University, you can access a wide range of benefits and services wherever you are in the world.
We have a dedicated Alumni team to help you stay in touch with the University and make the most of everything on offer. This includes careers support, discounted membership of the University gym, and associate membership of the University library.
To make the most of the full range of benefits and services on offer to you, register and update your details with the Alumni Network.
Register and Update Your Details
Alumni Events
Take a look at our upcoming alumni events and register to attend. From virtual networking events to reunions, we have a range of exciting events across the UK and overseas.
Get Involved
We have a range of activities that our alumni can get involved in. This includes becoming an alumni ambassador to support outreach and mentor current students, or providing us with a case study to help current and prospective students understand where a degree at Lincoln can take them.
Benefits and Services
We offer our alumni community a range of benefits and services, including access to specialist careers support, alumni scholarships for postgraduate study, continued use of the University library and exclusive discounts and offers.
Alumni Magazines
Get up to date with all the latest news from the Alumni Team, read the latest version of our alumni magazine and access previous editions here.
Careers Support for Alumni
The University of Lincoln is here to support new graduates and alumni who are further into their careers by providing careers support and information relating to any current vacancies or opportunities with local or national employers.
Student Enterprise
Do you dream of being an entrepreneur or doing things your own way? The Student Enterprise Team at the University of Lincoln offers a wide range of support to graduates, including workshops, mentoring, funding for those thinking of starting their own business or becoming a freelancer.
New Graduates
Take a look at our frequently asked questions page for more information about your graduation certificates, changes in access to ICT services and joining the alumni community.
Our Quick Links
As a university, we are able to provide you withsupport even after you graduate. Here are quick links to our most accessed services. To find additional links to services such as references or library and sports centre memberships, go to our benefits and services page.
Your Alumni Pin Badge
Didn't receive your alumni pin badge at graduation?
Email us atalumni@lincoln.ac.ukto receive your free alumni pin badge in the post and make sure to wear your pin badge with pride!

University of Lincoln Alumni Community
Take a look at our latest alumni news, success stories, blog posts written by our alumni and video content.Graduate Success Stories
Take a look at some of the rising stars of our alumni community.
Chris Gray, BA (Hons) Journalism, 2015
Chris spent his childhood commentating on computer games in his room and used his time at Lincoln to pursue his passion for sports journalism by starting a show on the Universitys on-campus community radio station. Since graduating, he has gone from strength to strength, and is now working as a senior journalist at BBC News, covering both the Manchester Arena and London Bridge terrorist attacks. Chris credits the facilities and staff at Lincoln for making him the journalist he is today.
Kamila Zolotar, MSc Management, 2018
Ayodele Ogunshakin, BA (Hons) Media Production, 2015
Ayodele works as a Storyliner at ITV's Coronation Street. After graduation Ayodele took a job working at BBC's Blue Peter before moving to ITV to work as an Assistant Storyliner on Coronation Street.  Ayodele was promoted to Storyliner in 2020.  Speaking at one of the University's graduation ceremonies in 2019 Ayodele said: "My sister and I would guess how storylines would end and joke that we could write them. I dreamed that it would happen and now here I am, writing storylines for Coronation Street".
Postgraduate Study and Alumni Scholarships
re looking to retrain for the post-Covid 19 economy, enhance your existing skills and employability, changing direction, or just looking to do something you love, the University of Lincoln has a wide range of Master's programmes spanning the arts, science, business, and social science.", 'We offer generous alumni scholarships on our postgraduate courses. There are also scholarships available for international students.
Take a look at our Postgraduate Studypages to find out more.
Supporting Us
Supporting Research
Our academic teams are involved in research at the leading edge of their disciplines, from pioneering research into new antibiotics, to uncovering secrets from our medieval past. Find out how you can make a difference.
Funding a Scholarship
Your support can give a student the chance to reach their full potential. Find out how you can support them through a generous donation towards a scholarship.
Support Our Campus
Over the past two decades, the University has invested around 400 million in our Brayford Pool Campus, with further plans to invest in additional facilities and refurbishments of existing buildings. Much of this has only been made possible by donors who were determined to ensure that we can provide the best learning environment for our students.
Stay in Touch
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


Benefits and Services | University of LincolnIn this section
Alumni Benefits and Services
The University of Lincoln is proud to offer our alumni community a number of benefits and services. These include access to specialist careers support, alumni scholarships for postgraduate study, continued use of the University library and exclusive discounts and offers.To access the full range of benefits and services, sign up and register with the Alumni Network.
Careers Support for Alumni
The University of Lincoln is here to support new graduates and alumni who are further into their careers by providing careers support and information relating to any current vacancies or opportunities with local or national employers. The Universitys Careers and Employability team offer graduates bespoke careers support for up to two years after completing their studies.
Library Access
Sports Centre Membership
Our graduates are able to join the University Sports Centre as an alumni member. This will enable you to use the gym, attend classes, and use other Fitness Centre facilities including fitness assessment, personal training, the sauna and boxing suite at competitive rates. To join please contact the Alumni Office.
Alumni Scholarships
If you wish to develop your knowledge and career prospects following undergraduate study, we offer generous alumni scholarships on postgraduate courses. There are also scholarships for international students.
Discounted Lincoln City FC Tickets 
Alumni of the University of Lincoln can access discounted tickets for selected Lincoln City Football Club fixtures. Tickets are priced at 10 per person with seats located in the University's area of the Family Stand. Maximum of 6 tickets per transaction. Please contact the alumni team to receive the promo code and link to book your tickets.
Live Pass
Exclusive Alumni Events
As a registered member of the Alumni Network, you can opt to receive special invitations to events such as receptions, guest lectures, and networking opportunities. These may be held on campus, across the UK and around the world.
University Public Lectures
Join the University Public Events mailing list to receive regular updates on upcoming events, lectures and guest speakers.
Associate Students' Union Membership
As a graduate of the University of Lincoln you can register for associate membership of the Students' Union.
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Replacement Certificates and Transcripts
Privacy Notice


Give Your Time | University of LincolnIn this section
Give Your Time
There are plenty of opportunities for our alumni to get involved in a range of activities to give their time to support the University. These include talking to students about your career and achievements, becoming a mentor to support students, arranging work experience or graduate internships at your place of work, and sharing your story to inspire students and fellow alumni.
Register Your Support and Share Your Story
If you live overseas and would like to know more about supporting our activities in the country where you are based, please contact us at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk.
The activities that you can get involved in are detailed below, but if you have any questions or would like to discuss giving your time with a member of the Alumni Team, please email us atalumni@lincoln.ac.uk.
Share Your Story
Share your successes and achievements with us by completing an alumni profile form and let us tell your story.
Talk to Students about Your Career
Many of our alumni return to the University to talk to current students about their professional experiences at Careers events or guest lectures. These can prove invaluable to students as they embark on their own careers.
Become a Mentor
Support students and new graduates at the start of their careers by becoming an alumni mentor. Click below to take a look at our guidance document on how to register as a mentor.
Offer Work Experience
Provide work experience opportunities for our current students and graduates.
Visit a School
Offer your expertise and advice to the next generation wanting to go to university through our Alumni Outreach Scheme.
Create a Vlog
Create an alumni video or vlog sharing your experiences. Read our vlog guidance document at the link below.
Write a Blog Post
Write a Blog Post about your time at the university or your current job to help inform current and prospective students with interests in a similar field. Read our guidance document on writing a blog post at the link below.
 Act as a Local Contact Point
Become a point of contact for alumni and prospective students in your local area.
Meet the Graduates 
Take part in an Alumni Panel at one of our Meet the Graduates events and share your advice with students.
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


Order a Certificate | Benefits and Services | University of LincolnCertificates and Transcripts
Requests for replacement certificates and transcripts are processed by the Student Administration team.
Replacement Certificates
The certificate the University issues is proof of the conferment of your award and is a unique and valuable document. Under no circumstances will the University issue additional or duplicate copies of your certificate if you still have within your possession the original certificate. Replacement certificates can only be issued if your original certificate has been lost or damaged, and the University reserves the right not to issue a duplicate nor specify the reasons for its decision. Replacement certificates are issued in what was your official name at the time of study.
The University is only able to issue replacement certificates for awards made by the University from 1993 onwards. Awards before this date were made by the Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA), the Open University is now responsible for these records. Further information can be found on theValidation Services page of the Open University.
How to Apply
Please complete the application form and ensure that you have attached a copy of your proof of identity (e.g. passport, driving licence). If you have changed your name since you were enrolled at the University please also provide proof of your name change (for example your marriage certificate or change of name deed).
Cost and Payment
All replacement certificates will be posted by DHL and the costs will be as follows:
You can download the application form and make payment via the Universitys online shop.
If you have any questions about ordering a replacement certificate please contact assessments@lincoln.ac.uk
Delivery
Completed forms will normally be processed within 2 weeks, however you should allow up to 4 weeks during peak periods (June  Sept). Forms not completed fully will not be processed and will be returned. The Certificate will only be posted via the method you specified when placing your order to the address on the application form. We are unable to scan and email replacement certificate to you.
Transcripts and Confirmation Letters
Your University transcript supplements your University certificate by providing a breakdown of the modules you studied, the marks and credits you achieved and the degree date and classification. A confirmation of Award letter can also be requested to confirm the dates you attended your University programme and the award you achieved.
How to Apply
If you completed your course within the last 3 months and have access to your OneUni account, please submit an online letter request through the Support section of your account (Student Support Letter Requests). If you no longer have access to OneUni, or you completed you course prior to this academic year, pleasecomplete the request form.
We aim to process most requests within 2 weeks, however requests for courses completed prior to 2000 please allow up to 4 weeks. Please note that it may not be possible to produce a full transcript for students who studied prior to 2000, as transcripts were not produced by the University as a matter of course. We cannot guarantee the completeness of records for students who studied at the University prior to 2000 or at one of our partner institutions due to system changes and institution mergers. There is currently no charge for this service.
Certificate of Education -Honorary Degree Awards
Honoris Causa'. This honorary degree recognises the academic work undertaken to achieve the Certificate in Education.", 'Unfortunately, the University no longer has complete records for awards made prior to 1980, therefore any student wishing be awarded the honorary degree will need to complete the form below and send proof of their qualification, such as a copy of their certificate, transcript, or confirmation of award letter.
Certificate of Education Honorary Degree Form
Contact Us
University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool,Lincoln, LN6 7TSPhone: +44 (0) 1522 835858alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


Events | University of LincolnIn this section
Special Events
As a member of the Alumni Community, you will receive special invitations to events such as networking opportunities, reunions, receptions, exhibition openings, and guest lectures. These may be held on campus, across the UK, and around the world.
s Place, and the St Pancras Renaissance Hotel in London.", 'Coming soon we have a range of different events that will offer a chance to catch up with old friends, make new connections, and find out about opportunities to support the University. Register your interest for email updates on upcoming events by emailing us at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk.

Upcoming Events
Masterclass: Demystifying Business Finances
Wednesday 10 April, 2024
1pm-2pm
Online
The session is your key to gaining financial confidence and harnessing the financial side of your business. We will decode finance and accounting terminology, regulation, and processes to make them relatable and provide clarity on the key areas of finance that will aid in running your business. *
Book Your Place Now
Pitching and Presenting
Monday 22 April, 2024
11am-12pm
Online
Delivered by Hil Gib, this is a virtual workshop in which participants with gain valuable pitching skills necessary for obtaining funding as a start-up. This will include understanding the skills needed for a focussed and engaging presentation, how to develop a pitch and how to make the most out of feedback. *
Book Your Place Now
Crafting Your Business Roadmap: A Beginners Guide to Business Planning 
Tuesday 30 April, 2024
2pm-3pm
Sparkhouse, University of Lincoln
Ready to turn your business idea into a reality? Join our workshop, "Crafting Your Business Roadmap: A Beginner's Guide to Business Planning," and learn the basics of business planning. Whether you're a student with a freelance dream or a recent graduate looking to refine your business strategy, this session is for you. *
Book Your Place Now
*Alumni from the University of Lincoln who have graduated within the last three years are eligible to register and attend the student enterprise specific workshops and events. ** Alumni from the University of Lincoln who have graduated within the last two years are eligible to register and attend the Careers and Employability specific workshops and events.
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T: +44 (0)1522 835858E: alumni@lincoln.ac.uk


Imogen Napper | Graduate Success Stories | University of LincolnDriving Environmental Change
Outraged with the polluted beaches she witnessed on the Surf Society trips during her undergraduate degree, Imogen Napper, MSc Biotechnology, 2014, was determined to drive environmental change.
Staying on at the University of Lincoln to study the MSc Biotechnology course offered her the opportunity to pursue this. Imogens postgraduate supervisor understood her passion for tackling plastic contamination in the environment, tailoring lectures surrounding the topic as a result.
Imogen explained; The research module I then undertook really grasped me by providing my first taste of independent research work.
"The adaptability and motivation from the staff during my degrees at Lincoln really drove me to a career in research.
Imogen has now taken her passion to the next level, focusing on the sources and fate of plastic contamination in the marine environment from everyday activities like using facial exfoliants or laundering clothes.
Imogen has presented her research internationally at conferences and has received significant media attention across major newspapers and TV networks. Understanding how the plastic soup of the ocean can be thwarted, Imogens research into harmful microbeads has also influenced legislation both domestically and worldwide.
More considerably, her research has shown the public that it is easy to make more informed decisions that can considerably reduce their own environmental imprint. Imogen is currently a Sky Ocean Rescue Scholar and a National Geographic Explorer, with her research effecting behavioural change to prevent more plastic finding its way into the oceans. 


Leaving a Legacy | Support the University | University of LincolnSupport Lincoln with a Gift in Your Will
We are grateful that you are considering a gift to the University of Lincoln.Whatever you want to achieve from supporting ground-breaking research, to providing student bursaries, a gift in your will is a way of continuing to make a difference to future generations at Lincoln.
s work, and we would be happy to discuss with you how you would like your gift to be used. Unrestricted legacies to The University of Lincolns charitable fund allow us to support the areas of greatest need, both now and in the future. If you would prefer to identify a particular area for support, we would be happy to discuss this with you to ensure that we can meet your wishes. These areas may include the Lincoln Medical School, a specific academic School or College, the University Library, a student scholarship or bursary, or even a University building.", 'The University of Lincoln is an exempt charity, meaning that gifts to the University of Lincoln are exempt from Inheritance Tax in the UK. This means that a gift from you can reduce the amount of any tax payable out of your estate. It is also currently possible for your other beneficiaries to receive a further reduction in Inheritance Tax if you leave at least 10% of your net estate to charity. Exempt Charity number: XR20664
We encourage you to speak to friends and family, or a solicitor, about your decision. Your gift is as unique as you, and your solicitor will be there to guide you through your decisions. Your gift can be as much or little as you like, from specific items all the way through to residue of estates, full estates, and cash gifts.
If you would like further information or would like to speak to someone about leaving a gift in your Will, please contact theDevelopment Office on+44 (0)1522 835835or by emailingdevelopment@lincoln.ac.uk.
Thank You
We would like to thank you personally for your support, so please let us know if you intend to remember us in your will. Please get in touch using the contact details below, or send us the completedLegacy Pledge Formif you prefer.

Development Office
University of Lincoln
Brayford Pool
Lincoln
LN6 7TS
+44 (0)1522 886644
development@lincoln.ac.uk


Meet the Graduates | Graduate Success Stories | University of LincolnGraduate Volunteers Inspire Students
More than 50 graduates have returned to Lincoln over the past few months to share their experiences with students and provide inspirational careers advice as part of our Meet the Graduates event series.
In partnership with the different academic schools across the University, the alumni team host these events for current students to give them an insight into life after University and to benefit from the knowledge of our graduates.
There has been an overwhelming response from alumni willing to talk about their career journey and offer advice to students on a wide variety of topics including the degree, how to get into industry, networking and gaining work experience.
Simon Mowbray, who graduated with a degree in Sports Development and Coaching advised: Get as much advice on the degree from the lecturers and get as much experience as you can in the community, whether thats coaching experience, volunteering or paid work.
The reaction from students has been extremely positive. A final year Media student tweeted #MtGLincoln was a fantastic event, great to hear so many stories and advice about the best ways to work in media.
If you would like to get involved in our future events, wed love to hear from you. Email us:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Return to Graduate Success Stories


Alumni Magazines | Alumni Community | University of LincolnUpdates from the University
Take a look previous editions of your Alumni Magazine where you'll be able to read about the latest news from the University as well as hear some stories fromalumniacross the world. If you would like to feature in a news story, future edition of the magazine, or would like to get involved in ouralumniambassador programme supporting our current and future students,please contact a member of thealumnioffice onalumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Minerva Alumni Magazine
Read previous editions of your alumni magazine below.
Minerva Issue 1, Summer 2019
Minerva Issue 2, Autumn 2019
Minerva Issue 3, Summer 2020
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


International Alumni Ambassadors | University of LincolnIn this section
Representing Lincoln in Your Country
Graduates of the University of Lincoln are involved in alumni groups across the globe. Wherever you are, youll have the chance to stay connected to Lincoln and meet alumni in your area.
The University of Lincoln has a network of International Alumni Ambassadors around the world, who bring a little bit of Lincoln to the country they live in. Our International Alumni Ambassadors support the University as a local point of contact, and share their experiences and advice about studying in Lincoln with prospective and current students.
Become an Ambassador
What Do International Alumni Ambassadors Do?
You can help support the work of the University of Lincoln in your home country by sharing your experiences and advising current and prospective students, attending and helping to organise networking and social events, and assisting in the recruitment of students. You can volunteer as much or as little time as you can spare.
Who Can Become an International Alumni Ambassador?
If you studied at University of Lincoln, successfully completed your course of study with us and now reside in a country outside the United Kingdom, you may apply to become an International Alumni Ambassador.
What Are the Benefits of Becoming an Ambassador?
In return for your voluntary support, we will keep you updated with news and events at the University and invite you to special events in your region. Ambassadors can register with the Alumni Network to receive a wide range of benefits and services, including regular communications about events and alumni updates.
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


["It's Great to Keep in Touch", 'Reunions are a fantastic way to reconnect with old friends and reminisce about your time at the University of Lincoln. They can also provide an opportunity to expand your professional network or celebrate a milestone or anniversary.
Our Alumni team have extensive experience in organising alumni events and would be happy to help support you with any reunions you may be thinking about. They can offer advice on venue selection and ideas for different types of events, catering and accommodation, event promotion, or put you in touch with old coursemates.
Please feel free to get in touch  even if you dont need help with organising  we would be delighted to hear news or see photographs of your previous alumni gatherings!
Things to Consider When Planning a Reunion
Form a Virtual Committee
Before you start planning, its a good idea to form an online committee and keep in touch via video call! It will make the planning process more enjoyable and also streamline workloads as each member will have a specific duty, such as treasurer, secretary, or promoter. 
Decide the Type of Reunion
The type of event you plan to organise will have an impact on the cost and level of effort involved. There are many different types of reunions to consider such as an informal gathering with drinks and food, a festival theme with live music, or a more formal setting of a classic black-tie dinner.
Select a Date, Time, and Venue
Its important to choose a venue that is large enough to accommodate everyone on your guest list. When selecting the perfect space, think about dcor, catering and alcohol licensing, or whether youll need to rent items such as tables and chairs.
Decide a Budget
Set a realistic budget and decide on whether you will charge for tickets. Keep in mind that the more affordable tickets are, the more likely people are to attend. Some guests may need to factor in the cost of travel and accommodation if they live far away.
Create a Guest List
Think about planning your event at least six months in advance, with invitations sent no later than three months before the reunion. Would you prefer to invite people from your graduating year, your old cohort, or maybe a specific group such as people from your halls?
Promote the Event 
A well-promoted reunion will help to increase awareness for invitees. Our Alumni team would be happy to help to publicise your event by sharing the news on social media or including in an e-newsletter to specific recipients. Get in touch to see how we can help support your event.
Contact our Team
We understand that planning a reunion requires a lot of organisation. Our experienced Alumni team would be delighted to assist at any stage of the event planning, whether you need advice on venue location, catering, or invitations. You can find our contact details at the end of this page.
Have You Joined? 
If you aren't already a member of our 100,000-strong alumni community, why not register online? Once signed up, you will be able to receive exclusive alumni e-newsletters, register for virtual University of Lincoln events, search directories for friends, and access discounts with national companies.
Engage with Lincoln's Alumni Community on Social Media 
Need Assistance?
You can speak to a member of our friendly team about your reunion, or anything else Alumni-related:
T:+44 (0)1522 835858
E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk


Dan Sam | Graduate Success Stories | University of LincolnFlying High at Santander UK
Lincoln graduate and former President of theUniversity of Lincolns Student Union,Dan Sam, is enjoying a successful career at leading commercial bank, Santander UK. As a Junior Banker supporting FTSE 100/250 businesses within the Aviation, Business Services and Transport perimeter, he effectively comes up with practical solutions to business needs by utilising the banks extensive expertise.
s really important to keep track of the changing face of business. Dan explained.", 'Behind the large corporate brands there are quite brilliant minds and personalities and its great going out to speak with them about the inner workings of their own businesses and in some ways learning from their practices.
After graduating with a BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance degree in 2012, Dan became the President of the Students Union for two years and was part of the team awarded National Union of the year in 2014. In the same year, they were runners-up in the Internationalised Union of the year  a first for the union.
Dan went on to work in various roles at Santander UK and in 2015, he was awarded University Relationship Branch Manager for Santander Universities. He has also been promoted twice during his time there. 
Still involved with the University of Lincoln, Dan regularly volunteers to help with alumni activities. He recently joined the Universitys Schools and Colleges liaison team on a school visit to inspire pupils and give them an insight into life at University. He is also due to return to campus later this month to share his career experiences and offer advice to current students as part of the Meet the Graduates event series.
Dan inspired fellow graduates to become an alumni volunteer during his talk at the University of Lincoln Alumni Reception in December. The reception was held at Santanders Head Office in Regents Place, where more than 80 alumni from across the years, gathered for the opportunity to catch up with friends, make new connections and celebrate their achievements.
I loved my time at Lincoln and I am so grateful to all who helped me in my development. Its a fabulous place to learn and develop. He said, as he encouraged others to become mascots for the University.
Return to Graduate Success Stories


Graduate Success Stories | Alumni Community | University of LincolnOur Alumni Community
Members of Lincolns 95,000-strong alumni community are having an impact wherever they are in the world. Many of them are influential in their fields, ranging from politics to international development, science, and engineering. We have notable filmmakers, Members of Parliament, award-winning designers and illustrators, and engineers with global companies in our network.
If you would like to share your story or be featured in our Graduate Success Stories, please get in touch.
Undergraduate Alumni Success Stories

Ayodele Ogunshakin, BA (Hons) Media Production, 2015
s Coronation Street. After graduation Ayodele took a job working at BBC's Blue Peter before moving to ITV to work as an Assistant Storyliner on Coronation Street. Ayodele was promoted to Storyliner in 2020.", 'Speaking at one of the University's graduation ceremonies in 2019 Ayodele said: "My sister and I would guess how storylines would end and joke that we could write them. I dreamed that it would happen and now here I am, writing storylines for Coronation Street".
Chris Gray, BA (Hons) Journalism, 2015
Chris spent his childhood commentating on computer games in his room and used his time at Lincoln to pursue his passion for sports journalism by starting a show on the Universitys on-campus community radio station. Since graduating, he has gone from strength to strength, and is now working as a senior journalist at BBC News, covering both the Manchester Arena and London Bridge terrorist attacks. Chris credits the facilities and staff at Lincoln for making him the journalist he is today.
Sitara Shefta, BSc (Hons) Games Computing, 2011
Avid gamer Sitara Shefta developed her childhood passion for gaming during her time at the University of Lincoln. Graduating with a BSc (Hons) in Games Computing, she used her university experiences of the development process to thrive in the games industry, climbing the ranks to Head of Studio at No Brakes Games.
Postgraduate Alumni Success Stories

Alice Carter, MSc by Research Sports Development, 2014
Alice graduated with both her undergraduate and postgraduate degrees from the University of Lincoln having studied BSc Sport Development and Coaching and MSc by Research Sports Development. She has remained living in the city, and now works as Project Manager for Lincoln City Foundation.
"The University of Lincoln is a forward-thinking institution that has grown and developed year on year; throughout my studies I was aware of this, and since living in the city after graduating I have witnessed its expansion. The University places equal emphasis on academic knowledge, research, and practical experience, which is vital for being employable after graduating."
Emily-Jayne White, MA Journalism, 2019
Emilygraduated from the University of Lincoln with an MA Journalism in 2019 having already undertaken her BA (Hons) English. Since graduatingEmilyhas progressed quickly in her career having worked as a Community Reporter for the Lincolnshire Echo alongside the Facebook Community News Project.Emilyis now working as News Reporter at MoneySavingExpert.com.
"Take advantage of all the University has to offer, don't limit yourself as you may discover a passion that one day might become a vocation."
Jacob Kay, MA Theatre, 2019
Jacob graduated from the University of Lincoln with an MA Theatre in 2019 having already undertaken his BA (Hons) Drama. Jacob works as a freelance writer, actor and filmmaker and, having been shortlisted for the Bruntwood Prize for Playwriting in 2019, has worked on a variety of projects including tv mini-series, When it Rains, which has guest starred Harry Potter actor and Lincoln alumnus, Chris Rankin.
"My time studying at the University of Lincoln gave me a useful foundation to build upon when entering the arts industry in a professional context. Even now I have graduated, the University of Lincoln, both the institution and its staff, still supports my career and follows my progression with enthusiasm and encouragement."
Kamila Zolotar, MSc Management, 2018
Born and raised in Poland, Kamila started her university life in Poland before moving to the UK, learning English, and enrolling at the University of Lincoln. Kamila balanced study, work, and life with a young family; graduating with a First-Class BA (Hons) Business & Marketing in 2014 before gaining her MSc Management in 2018. She successfully secured a graduate internship at a local tech company before being promoted to General Manager.
"Studying at the University of Lincoln truly was a life changing experience. Itgave me a new job and a new life."
Kate Ellam, MSc Clinical Animal Behaviour, 2016 
Kate undertook her MSc at the University of Lincoln having studied her undergraduate degree elsewhere. After graduating Kate worked at the Dogs Trust before taking a role as Canine Assisted Services Manager at Guide Dogs for the Blind.
"At Lincoln I gained the valuable knowledge and practical skills relevant to the field of animal behaviour. Gaining the additional qualification of the MSc has enabled me to apply for roles I may not have otherwise been suitable for."
University of Lincoln Alumni Community
Take a look at our latest alumni news, success stories, blog posts written by our alumni and video content.Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


Phillip Krstic | Graduate Success Stories | University of LincolnFilming Life on the Run
s reality thriller 'Hunted' was like no other job he had done before. As a freelance assistant producer, he had to follow the fugitives wherever they went in the UK and help record their time on the run.", "One day I'd be running on the streets of Manchester city centre, and the next I'd be cycling up to 50 miles a day in North Wales. Philip said. Where we went and how we travelled totally depended on what the contributors wanted to do. We were simply there to observe and record their time on the run.", 'We had to be ready at all times with the cameras to film the drama as it unfolded. There was no opportunity for second takes - if we missed something that was it! Even the smallest interactions could play a huge part in their story on the run, so we had to make sure that it was all covered.
Working on such a large scale production such as Hunted highlighted to him just how much goes into the programme. From the commissioning, casting, prepping, health and safety, legal and financial side of things, there are huge teams of people who make the whole thing seamlessly happen.
Since graduating, Philip has worked on a variety of programme formats. These include a couple of exciting documentaries; one of which was following a teenage trans female, and another following Ian Wright set up football tournaments in Young Offenders Institutes in the hope to reduce recidivism.
s 'Food Unwrapped' and 'Superfoods' in which he travelled all over the world to prove or debunk health claims surrounding various foods.", 'Reflecting on his time at Lincoln, Philip said: Having access to the wide range of kit the Lincoln School of Film and Media had whilst at the University certainly helped me when it came to using kit for broadcast productions. Often, even on entry level jobs in television, you're expected to have basic knowledge on how to operate cameras and use equipment. There's no question that what I learned at LSFM helped me get to where I am today.
Philip is just over 5 years into his career in television and although the editorial side of television production predominantly consists of freelance contracts, he is always looking forward to what adventure his next project will bring.
Return to Graduate Success Stories


Leaving a Legacy Draft | Support the University | University of LincolnSupport Lincoln with a Gift in Your Will
We are grateful that you are considering a gift to the University of Lincoln.Whatever you want to achieve from supporting ground-breaking research, to providing student bursaries, a gift in your will is a way of continuing to make a difference to future generations at Lincoln.
s work, and we would be happy to discuss with you how you would like your gift to be used. Unrestricted legacies to The University of Lincolns charitable fund allow us to support the areas of greatest need, both now and in the future. If you would prefer to identify a particular area for support, we would be happy to discuss this with you to ensure that we can meet your wishes. These areas may include the Lincoln Medical School, a spcific academic School or College, the University Library, a student scholarship or bursary, or even a University building.", 'The University of Lincoln is an exempt charity, meaning that gifts to the University of Lincoln are exempt from Inheritance Tax in the UK. This means that a gift from you can reduce the amount of any tax payable out of your estate. It is also currently possible for your other beneficiaries to receive a further reduction in Inheritance Tax if you leave at least 10% of your net estate to charity. Exempt Charity number: XR20664
We encourage you to speak to friends and family, or a solicitor, about your decision. Your gift is as unique as you, and your solicitor will be there to guide you through your decisions. Your gift can be as much or little as you like, from specific items all the way through to residue of estates, full estates, and cash gifts.
If you would like further information or would like to speak to someone about leaving a gift in your Will, please contact theDevelopment Office on+44 (0)1522 835835or by emailingdevelopment@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contact Us
            Simon Crookall                                         Development Office                                              Hannah Carlton
   Head of Development and Alumni Relations                             University of Lincoln                                       Development & Alumni Officer
            01522886330                                            Brayford Pool                                                01522 886653
         scrookall@lincoln.ac.uk                                          Lincoln                                                hcarlton@lincoln.ac.uk
LN6 7TS
+44 (0)1522 835835
development@lincoln.ac.uk


Support the University | Alumni Community | University of LincolnMake a Difference
The University of Lincolnhas established an international reputation for the quality of its teaching and research. Our academic teams are involved in research at the leading edge of their disciplines, from developing new antibiotics and more effective cancer treatments, to tackling the digital divide and preserving historical artefacts. This research is changing the world and its quality and relevance is recognised nationally and internationally. More than three quarters ofLincolns research was judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading in the Research Excellence Framework (REF) - the most recent major assessment of research standards across UK universities.
We are extremely grateful for the support and contributions we have already received that have helped to make the University of Lincoln what it is today, but to continue this journey we need your support. Through a generous gift you can help support the next generation of students and researchers.
How You Can Help
Support Our Research
Our academic teams are involved in research at the leading edge of their disciplines. It is vital that we support those who are learning, teaching, and researching by ensuring they have the opportunities, facilities, and resources to reach their full potential. Your gift today could mean a world-changing discovery tomorrow.
Support Our Students
Our alumni, friends, and supporters allow us to continue to deliver high-quality education and opportunities for students of all ages and backgrounds. Your donation could help us support students, create and maintain specialist facilities, or even offer named scholarships, prizes, and bursaries to ensure that financial hardship need not deter talented students from achieving their full potential.
Support Our Campus
Over the past two decades, the University has invested around 400 million in its Brayford Pool Campus, with further plans to invest in additional facilities and refurbishments of existing buildings. Much of this has only been made possible by donors who were determined to ensure that we can provide the best learning environment for our students.
How to Donate
There are many ways in which you can make a gift to us. If you would like any advice or guidance, please get in touch with the team at development@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contact Us
Development OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS+44 (0)1522 835835development@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Policy


Inspire, Grow, Connect | Alumni Community | University of LincolnFree Online Lectures
All of our latest Inspire, Grow, Connect Lectures are available to watch on demand below. We will release the schedule for our autumn series soon.
If you would like to suggest someone or take part in one of our live streamed talks, please do get in touch with us atalumni@lincoln.ac.uk.
On Demand
Stay in Touch
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


Competitions | Alumni Community | University of LincolnGraduation Photo Competition
ll choose up to 20 winners.", 'Terms and Conditions


How to Become a Mentor | Give Your Time | University of LincolnDevelop your Skills
How to Become a Mentor with Lincoln Connect
Lincoln Connect is our online mentoring platform designed for alumni to offer career support, advice andindustry insights to current students through informal mentoring. It provides a great opportunity for you to give back and connect with our diverse and talented community.
Register Online
Become a mentor, develop your skills, and grow your professional connections with Lincoln Connect.
Frequently Asked Questions
Mentoring is a relationship in which a more experienced person helps to guide a less experiencedperson. Successful mentoring relationships should provide both parties with opportunities for growth of knowledge and expertise in their chosen area. As well as the satisfaction of helping others you can gain experience in leadership, communication, and management skills.
Mentoring should not be:
Mentoring experience is a sought-after attribute which is transferable into your own place of work. This rewarding experience will offer you the chance to inspire new graduates, but also develop your own professional and personal skills-set. Furthermore, you will:
For Lincoln Connect we use a secure, online platform called Graduway that allows students, graduates, and employers to network virtually. The site is easy to sign up to and functions in a verysimilar way to LinkedIn, the main difference being that all users are associated with The University ofLincoln.
It is important to recognise that many of our students will lack confidence and may not feel they are able to make the first interaction with mentors. Whilst the team will try to manually match students with mentors, we do ask that mentors share posts on the main feed of the platform and ensure their profile is up to date to encourage students to reach out.
While some students will seek a greater level of mentoring, you may also find that others will reach out to only ask one or two questions with little further interaction. Please do not feel disheartened if this happens. Your response to that question will likely have already helped that student. However, should you have any worries or concerns please do get in touch with a member of the team.
We are also looking for volunteer Lincoln Connect Champions to support us to increase engagement with the diversity and inclusion groups on the platform. The groups include:
We are looking for Mentors who can commit to posting on a group of their choice a minimum ofonce per month. The posts should be related to the group topic and include insights into your own experience, advice, useful resources, and reflective questions.
Please contact Freddie Copson (JCopson@lincoln.ac.uk) if this is an opportunity you are interestedin.
Thanks for your interest in becoming a mentor. Please sign up directly via www.lincolnconnect.co.uk, speak to a member of the Careers and Employability team, emailcareers@lincoln.ac.uk, or call us on 01522 837828. We can then discuss your requirements and help you to get signed up to the site. We look forward to hearing from you!
As a Lincoln Connect mentor, you are encouraged to join us for one of our informal online training sessions; Lincoln Connect - How to make the most out of being a mentor. You can find more information about upcoming sessions via thealumni events page.



New Graduates | Alumni Community | University of LincolnWelcome to Our Alumni Community
New Graduates
Congratulations, you did it! Welcome to our global alumni community, which is made up of more than 120,000 graduates from across 135 countries. As a graduate of the University, you can access a wide range of benefits and services wherever you are in the world.
We have a dedicated Alumni team to help you stay in touch with the University and make the most of everything on offer. This includes careers support, discounted membership of the University gym, and associate membership of the University library.
Please find more information for new graduates below detailing information about your transition to the alumni community, including your certificates, ICT accounts and more.
If you completed your award before June 2023 we are aiming to ensure certificates are posted by the end of September.
If you completed your award during the summer of 2023, we are aiming to ensure certificates are posted by the end of October.*
*As of the 1stNovember, the majority of certificates have been printed and are being posted out as quickly aspossible. We do apologise that may be some delays in receiving certificates which should be resolved in the coming weeks. We believe that all certificates should be posted by the end of Novemberat the very latest. 
If you need your certificate urgently for a current job offer, visa application, further study deadline or any other critical issueand the electronic transcript you have already received is not sufficient, please contactalumni@lincoln.ac.ukwhere the team should be able to assist you. Please include your full name, student ID and details about your current deadline in the email.
Your certificate and transcript will be posted to the permanent address which is recorded on your One Uni record.
You must therefore ensure that these details are accurate ahead of us sending your certificate to ensure safe postage.
For UK students this will be via Royal Mail, for International/Overseas students this will be via DHL.
You can update your details in the My Details area of your One Uni account. Please do so by the 1st September 2023.
Please ensure that your permanent address, email address and phone number are up to date.
If your address details are incorrect at the point of posting, and your certificate is returned to us, there may be a charge for redelivery to your new address.
If you completed your studies in the 2022/2023 academic year and do not receive your certificate by the end of October 2023, please email certificates@lincoln.ac.uk.
If you completed your studies in a previous academic year and require replacement documentation, you should visit our website for more information.
If you completed your course within the last 3 months and have access to your OneUni account, please submit an online letter request through the Support section of your account (Student Support Letter Requests). If you no longer have access to OneUni, or you completed you course prior to this academic year, pleasecomplete the request form.
If you require an academic reference, please get in touch with the alumni team at alumni@lincoln.ac.ukwho will be able to advise the best way to request this.
Further information about access to your Digital Technoloies (DT) accounts can be found on the DT website . If you have any questions at all, please contact the Digital Technologies team at ict@lincoln.ac.uk.
As a recent graduate of the University of Lincoln, you can access support with career planning, development and applications, for up to 2 years after you finish your studies. Further details can be found on the careers websiteor you can get in touch with the Careers and Employability team at careers@lincoln.ac.uk.
The Alumni Network is a global community of over 120,000 University of Lincoln alumni and we have a dedicated Alumni team who are on hand to support you.
Please see our Benefits and Services page for full information about the benefits and services on offer to you as alumni of the university.
If you have any questions at all, please don't hesitate to get in touch with us at alumni@lincoln.ac.uk.
When you complete your award, you student record is transferred to the Alumni team who then create your alumni record. After graduation, you should receive a formal welcome to The Alumni Network via email with more information.
You can register and update your details held on your alumni record via the button below.
Register and Update Your Details
When you graduate, you remain a valued part of the university community. As alumni, you have a unique insight into what is it like to be part of the University of Lincoln and you can continue to support us by registering to become an Alumni Ambassador or by sharing your story. To find out more about how you can support us, please see ourGet Involvedpage.
Please do keep us up to date with your achievements and successes as we always love to hear from you!
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


Student Enterprise | Alumni Community | University of LincolnDo you have an idea for a business? Do you like the idea of working for yourself?
At Student Enterprise, were passionate about supporting our students and graduates pursuing careers in self-employment and entrepreneurship. If youre looking to go into freelancing or keen to start a business, were here to support you in any way we can. This includes:
Contact us at studententerprise@lincoln.ac.ukto find out more about how we can support you.
Become a Freelancer
Freelancing gives you the chance to pursue your passion, without being tied down to a single job. Having the freedom that freelancing brings means that you can work with who you like, where you like and when you like. It also offers you the chance to develop multiple sources of income from several clients. Here at Student Enterprise, we can support you with getting started in your freelancing career.
Start a Business
Businesses are born from ideas. No matter how big or small, if you have an idea for a product or system to solve a common problem, this can be nurtured into an industry defining business. Here at Student Enterprise, weve got everything you need to help grow your idea into a business.
Latest News
Get the latest news and updates from the Student Enterprise team. We'll be keeping you posted on what's happening and sharing knowledge with enterprising students and graduates from the University of Lincoln and elsewhere.
Upcoming Events
Alumni from the University of Lincoln who have graduated within the last three years are eligible to register and attend these workshops and events.

Masterclass: Demystifying Business Finances
Wednesday 10 April, 2024
1pm-2pm
Online
The session is your key to gaining financial confidence and harnessing the financial side of your business. We will decode finance and accounting terminology, regulation, and processes to make them relatable and provide clarity on the key areas of finance that will aid in running your business. *
Book Your Place Now
Pitching and Presenting
Monday 22 April, 2024
11am-12pm
Online
Delivered by Hil Gib, this is a virtual workshop in which participants with gain valuable pitching skills necessary for obtaining funding as a start-up. This will include understanding the skills needed for a focussed and engaging presentation, how to develop a pitch and how to make the most out of feedback. *
Book Your Place Now
Crafting Your Business Roadmap: A Beginners Guide to Business Planning 
Tuesday 30 April, 2024
2pm-3pm
Sparkhouse, University of Lincoln
Ready to turn your business idea into a reality? Join our workshop, "Crafting Your Business Roadmap: A Beginner's Guide to Business Planning," and learn the basics of business planning. Whether you're a student with a freelance dream or a recent graduate looking to refine your business strategy, this session is for you. *
Book Your Place Now
Follow Us on Social Media
Contact Student Enterprise
SparkhouseRope WalkLincolnLincolnshireLN6 7DQ
T:+44 (0)1522 837200E:studententerprise@lincoln.ac.uk


Alumni Careers | Alumni Community | University of LincolnCareers Support for Alumni
The University of Lincoln is here to support alumni by providing careers support and information relating to any current vacancies or opportunities with local or national employers. New graduates can access more in-depth and bespoke careers support for up to two years after graduation through the Careers and Employability Team. Vacancies and opportunities relevant to alumni who graduated more than two years ago are hosted on our jobs board further down this page. The Student Enterprise Team can also offer support to alumni who are wishing to start their own business or become a freelancer.
New Graduates
Alumni can access careers support provided by the Careers and Employability Team for up to two years after completing their studies. To find the right support for you, take a look at the options below or visit the Careers and Employability website for more information such as bespoke careers advice for your course. Alternatively, you can contact the team directly for advice.
Contact the Careers and Employability Team
Careers Support and Appointments
For support with career planning, development and applications, as well as access to appointments with a member of the careers team, work through the statements on the Careers and Employability website to find the right support for you.
Vacancies for New Graduates
CareerLinc the University's vacancy platform exclusive to University of Lincoln graduates, advertising over 1000 jobs per week. Register for an alumni account and search today, or set up alerts for relevant jobs straight to your inbox! For support accessing CareerLinc, please email careers@lincoln.ac.uk.
Careers and Employability Events
The Careers & Employability Team run a range of events to support all aspects of your career, from exploring career paths to the recruitment process.
Alumni Jobs Board
Please find below details of current vacancies, volunteer and work experience opportunities shared with us by employers and companies looking for University of Lincoln alumni who graduated more than two years ago.
Ever thought about becoming a school governor and supporting education for children in your local community?
Our charity partner Governors for Schools helps volunteers with diverse skills and backgrounds get into governance and develop their professional skills by placing them as governors and trustees on school and academy boards.
To find out more and submit your application, please visit the Governors for Schools website.
Job Opportunities at the University of Lincoln
Here at the University of Lincoln, we aim to provide a vibrant community of staff and students, where all ofus can share new knowledge, skills, ideas, and approaches.
We offer a range of exciting career opportunities, with competitive salaries, generous benefits packages, training and development programmes, and health and wellbeing support, givingyou the chance to reach your full potential.
If you can't find a suitable position after viewing our current opportunities, then don't worry. You can sign up to our freeJobs by Emailservice, which will alert you to any vacanciesin the future.
Browse Our Current Vacancies

Opportunities with Local Employers
Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust
City of Lincoln Council Vacancies
Lincolnshire County Council Vacancies
Contact the Alumni Office
Alumni OfficeUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
T:+44 (0)1522 835858E:alumni@lincoln.ac.uk
Privacy Notice


