Graduate Recruitment | University of LincolnIn this section
We Can Help Your Business Grow
At the University of Lincoln, there are many ways in which businesses can benefit from working with our students and graduates. Engaging with their talent can enable your business to gain a competitive edge, whether you are looking to launch new products, inject fresh ideas into your business or develop more efficient ways of working through up-skilling your workforce.
Our Careers and Employability team provide a service to hundreds of employers seeking to recruit the best in graduate talent. We have a bespoke vacancy management system, which emails our students and graduates vacancies of specific interest to them. Our team of career professionals are experts in the graduate labour market and we offer free consultancy to businesses looking to recruit graduates.
Internships The Lincoln Internship Programmedelivers a high quality, tailored package of support to business by removing barriersto recruitment, making the process easy by saving costs, time and offers a limited number of one-off small grants towards employment costs. SMEs may also be eligible for internship funding via our Productivity Programme
Get in Touch
If you have an opportunity you could offer one of our students or graduates, please contact the Careers team and we will explore the best possible avenues for you.
CareersUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
careers@lincoln.ac.uk
+44 (0)1522 837828


Start-ups | University of LincolnIn this section
Helping your Business Fly
At Lincoln, we're dedicated to helping great business ideas get off the ground to become successful start-up enterprises. Since our award-winning Sparkhouse business incubation centre was established in 2003, it has supported more than 300 new businesses to find their feet.Sparkhouse provides an environment that gives new businesses access to specialist support services, knowledge and facilities. Its office accommodation offers stepped rental packages with access to training seminars and workshops, networking events and a range of other business support. It can also provide virtual tenancies for new businesses that want to benefit from support services but don't need physical office space.Learn more about Sparkhouse at:www.sparkhouselincoln.co.uk

Start Your Own Business
Our dedicated Business Incubation Team offers a range of services:
Mentoring, Help, and AdviceGuidance on starting your own business, from initial concept to the legal considerations of launching a new enterprise.Business PlanningShape your entrepreneurial idea into a workable business plan for prospective business partners or funders.Funding and FinanceWork out cashflow, capital requirements and profit margins, and identify potential funding sources, so you can start on a sound financial footing.Market ResearchGet help with market research to refine your product or service, establish its space in the marketplace, and spot new opportunities.
Kickstart Your Self-Employed Career
Do you have an idea for a business? Do you like the idea of working for yourself? Student Enterprise at the University of Lincoln offers a wide range of support to all students and graduates looking to get started in self-employment. 
Student Enterprise Website
We have collaborated with businesses that we would not have had the opportunity to work with had we not been resident in Sparkhouse. My business continues to grow and the support Ive received at Sparkhouse has been invaluable.
Agri-Tech Start-Ups and the Eagle Lab Farm
Located at the Riseholme campus, the Eagle Lab in Lincoln houses state-of-the-art facilities, including a robotics lab, a demonstration packhouse and a model refrigerated supermarket aisle. These are complemented by traditional facilities, including 80 beef cattle and 160 sheep to develop cutting-edge AgriTech research, and helping UK agriculture to become the most digitally enabled farming industry in the world.
Businesses based at the Eagle Lab can benefit from:


Starting an Agri-Tech Business?
Talk to our team and find out how the facilities and services at the Eagle Lab Farm can support your Agri-Tech business.
Get in Touch
If you are interested in finding out how the University of Lincoln could help your business or organisation, get in touch with our Research and Enterprise team and we will work with you to find a solution that's right for you.
Research and EnterpriseUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
enterprise@lincoln.ac.uk
UK: 0800915 5278
International:+44 (0)1522 837200


Business Funding | University of LincolnIn this section
Enabling Growth
Growing your business is not always straightforward and financial constraints can hinder innovation and expansion. Working with the University of Lincoln can enable you to access a specialist service, expertise or capability that may not have otherwise been available to you. It can also support innovative partnerships between your business, the University and public and third sector organisations.
Within the Research and Enterprise team, we have a broad range of expertise in the development of collaborative funding proposals. This is designed to support innovative partnerships between the University and private, public and third sector organisations. We will work with you to identify appropriate funding mechanisms, then support you through proposal development and submission as well as managing IP and contract negotiations. We aim to support you throughout the life-cycle of your project.
There are a range of funding opportunities available for new and established businesses and working with a university can enhance and strengthen your application. Current opportunities include European funding, Research Councils UK, Innovate UK and a range of charities.
Productivity Programme for Greater Lincolnshire
The Productivity Programme for Greater Lincolnshire is funded by the ERDF and is delivered by the University of Lincoln. It is designed to enable SMEs to advance and develop their innovation and productivity ambitions through a programme of grant funding, events, Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and support. Collaboration with the academic capacity of the University delivers technical knowledge and expertise, while a dedicated internship programme seeks to provide businesses with graduate-level skills.
For more information emailproductivity@lincoln.ac.uk.

Innovate UK
Innovate UK is part of UK Research and Innovation, a non-departmental public body funded by a grant-in-aid from the UK government. They drive productivity and economic growth by supporting businesses to develop and realise the potential of new ideas, including those from the UKs world-class research base. Working in collaboration with research funding councils, business, and academia, Innovate UK provides grants to UK companies of all sizes to stimulate business led-innovation.
The government has set an ambition for the UK to become the most innovative country in the world, and as part of the modern Industrial Strategy, has committed to raise investment in research and development (R&D) to 2.4% of GDP by 2027.
For more information about how the University of Lincoln can support your business growth with Innovate UK funding, email enterprise@lincoln.ac.uk or call 0800 915 5278.
Grants and Funding
Funding your business can sometimes be quite daunting but Sparkhouse can offer support with developing your business plan and financial forecast. These are vital to secure funding from banks, angel networks or investors. Sparkhouse also offers a range of workshops that outline what investors/banks are looking for. Visit the Sparkhouse website for more information or contact the Sparkhouse team on01522 837200 or atsparkhouse@lincoln.ac.uk.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
The University of Lincoln has a wealth of experience with part-funded Knowledge Transfer Partnership schemes. It has conducted more than 60 projects withwith organisations of many different sizes froma range of sectors. If you would like to find out how your business could benefit from a KTP, contact the Research and Enterprise team on 0800 915 5278 or emailenterprise@lincoln.ac.uk. Further information on the scheme can also be found onour KTP webpage.

Graduate Internship Scheme
The University is pleased to be able to offer our highly-successful Graduate Internship Scheme. The scheme allows us to offer businesses a 1,000 bursary to recruit one of our talented graduates for a minimum three-month period. If you have never recruited a graduate, this is an ideal scheme to explore their potential, with minimal risk for you as an employer. To find out more contact a member of the Careers team on01522 837828 or emailcareers@lincoln.ac.uk


Industry Links | Business Engagement | University of LincolnA Blueprint for Industry Engagement
Whether it is engaging industry experts to address specific skills gaps by launching new academic programmes, or pursuing cutting-edge research to solve real-world commercial challenges, we have built a reputation for understanding and responding to the needs of business.
We are proud of our industry partnerships and continue to build sustainable long-term relationships with a diverse range of organisations. Our goal is to help drive local, regional and national economic growth and prosperity by delivering the skills and innovation industry needs, while ensuring our students benefit from the connections we make.
Siemens Energy Partnership
In 2009, in collaboration with Siemens (and now Siemens Energy), the University of Lincoln established the first dedicated new engineering school to be created in the UK for more than two decades. This long-standing collaboration has won a string of national awards and acclaim, including a prestigious Lord Stafford Award and a Times Higher Education Award.
By incorporating industry input in course content, providing work experience placements, and offering valuable opportunities to contribute to cutting-edge research, graduates are prepared to make an immediate contribution on entering the workplace.
Who We Work With
The Guardian
The University of Lincoln has teamed up with one of the worlds most trusted media outlets, The Guardian, to help current and prospective students stay up-to-date and informed as they navigate the world of UK higher education.
Santander
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Santander Universities Global Division. The scheme provides funding for staff and student to benefit from international scholarships, mobility awards and research grants, as well as programme of internships placing talented new graduates with local small and medium-sized businesses. 
Lincolnshire Co-op
The Lincoln Science & Innovation Park was created as part of a joint venture between the University of Lincoln and Lincolnshire Co-op. The science park's Joseph Banks Laboratories are home to more than 1,000 staff and students in science subjects, including our School of Pharmacy, while the nearby Boole Technology Centre provides flexible commercial space for innovative tech businesses.
Supporting the Defence and Security Sector
As an anchor institution to a region possessing a rich military heritage, the University of Lincoln seeks to engage with our defence and security community  sharing knowledge, developing skills, and encouraging innovation through collaborative research.
Greater Lincolnshire Engineering And Manufacturing (GLEAM) Network
An exciting new initiative founded by theSchool of EngineeringandGreater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership (GLLEP)Manufacturing Board,offering huge potential to support the manufacturingsector across theregion and bridge the gapbetween academia and manufacturingbusinesses.
The network will work to support the growth and development of SMEs by promoting best practice, manufacturingsolutions and partnership opportunities, and will showcase technological advances, cutting edge thinking and act as a knowledge-transfer vehicle between academia and industry.
Attend events, engage with fellow industry-specialists and tackle some of the challenges facing the sector as part of a wider community.
Find out more


Santander Partnership | Industry Links | University of LincolnA Shared Vision
As a member of the Santander Universities Global Division, the University of Lincoln forms part of an international network of more than 1,200 higher education institutions in over 20 countries which share three common goals; internationalisation, transfer of knowledge, and fostering of entrepreneurial skills.At Lincoln, Santander provides funding support for students, giving them access to mobility awards as well as a programme to help develop business and entrepreneurial skills. Mobility scholarships aim to help undergraduate and postgraduate research students gain experience at another institution in the international Santander Universities network, while entrepreneurs are also supported in a variety of ways, including an annual business pitching competition which gives student and graduate business ventures a financial boost.
Get in Touch
If you'd like to find out more about the University of Lincoln's partnership with Santander, please get in touch.
DevelopmentCommunications, Development and MarketingUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
development@lincoln.ac.uk
+44 (0)1522 835835


Academic Consultancy | University of LincolnIn this section
Finding Solutions Together
The University of Lincoln has a wide range of disciplines and specialisms, offering businesses the opportunity to tap into a wealth of sector-specific knowledge, experience, and expertise. Your organisation could partner with a University of Lincoln academic to develop a product, service, or solution to help your business to grow.
Our Commercial teams will work to understand your requirements and then partner you with the academic(s) best placed to offer support. Theyll ensure each project is efficiently managed, handling all the administrative, contractual, and financial processes.
What Can Academic Consultancy Involve?
What Are the Potential Benefits to Your Business?
"Accessing academic expertise has allowed us to develop our business in a unique way. Through the Productivity Programme we were able to work with a University of Lincoln academic with the knowledge and expertise to help us create a Carbon Footprint Tool, the first of its kind for our industry. The academic was happy to work with both ourselves and an environmental company to develop the tool. The process was straightforward and communication was brilliant. I would highly recommend this programme."
- Ellie Good, Head of Sustainability, Reuseabox

"This training has changed the way I practise. It has allowed me to focus on individuals' strengths and help them to utilise this to make therapeutic gains. It was tailored perfectly for our needs and was so applicable to my job role. The trainer was extremely knowledgeable and made it so enjoyable and engaging."
- Manager,Allied Health Professionals, Lincolnshire Community Health Services NHS Trust
Let's Collaborate
If you have strategic project you think we may be able to support with, please don't hesitate to get in touch for an introductory conversation.


Academic Expertise | University of LincolnIn this section
Discover our Expertise
At the University of Lincoln, we understand that innovation means something different to every business. Innovation can help your organisation become more competitive, increase sales, enter new markets and adapt to the changing expectations of your customers.
By connecting you with ourinternationally renownedacademic experts, we can help you to develop innovative solutions for the specific challenges faced by your business.
s a one-off consultancy project or a major programme of industrial R&D, we can help you identify academic talent to achieve your goals.", 'Academic Consultancy 
Join organisations including Marks & Spencer, Siemens, Mitsubishi, the MOD, and English Heritage who've worked with our academic experts. We have wide-ranging experience of collaborating with industrial partners on commercial projects. Our in-house team offers an efficient, confidential and commercially aware service to help businesses identify suitable consultancy and partnership opportunities.
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs)
KTPs are a UK-wide programme which supports businesses to develop a product, service or process by linking them with a university academic and highly skilled graduate. The University of Lincoln has conducted more than 60 KTPs with organisations of many different sizes and sectors, including national award-winning partnerships.
Educational Contracts
The University of Lincoln can help you to empower and upskill your staff through a range of staff-development opportunities, including workshops, short courses and degree programmes. Our academics are renowned for innovation in teaching and learning good practice.
The Bridge  Advanced Engineering Materials R&D Centre
Collaborative and Contract Research
At the University of Lincoln, we understand that the best research outcomes are achieved through collaboration with others. The University is keen to explore where new partnerships and collaborations might work to uncover original areas of research, or contribute innovative knowledge or cutting-edge solutions to critical problems and challenges faced by businesses or the wider community.
Start-ups and Business Incubation
Our Business Incubation Teams, based in Sparkhouse and Think Tank, are experts in supporting fledgling start-ups and early stage businesses. Both centres provide access to mentoring, office space and other facilities to help you kick-start and grow your business. New and young businesses can benefit from competitive rental agreements, as well as a collaborative culture alive with innovation and creativity.
Specialist Facilities 
Whatever your subject or sector, we aim to ensure that our partners have access to the latest equipment and resources to support their product development or research. All three campuses i.e. Brayford Pool (city centre), Riseholme (Agriculture) and National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) have received significant investment in additional facilities and refurbishment. 
The National Centre for Food Manufacturing has been central to product development for my business, giving me access to both expertise and facilities that as a small business I would otherwise not have had. Working with the team at Holbeach has given me the opportunity to build and keep building my business, and I look forward to continuing to work with them as my business develops and grows.
Ceres Agri-tech
We are proud to be part of Ceres, a collaborative agri-tech partnership between five leading UK universities and three renowned agricultural research institutes. Funded by Research England, it provides translational funding and commercialisation expertise to drive agri-tech innovation by accelerating high quality research to market.
d like to discuss investment opportunities, please contact Jessica Boot-Marshall, Acting Industrial Partnerships Manager via jbootmarshall@lincoln.ac.uk.", 'Find out more

JBL Science
JBL Science is a commercial research organisation based within the University of Lincoln drawing on the expertise principally within the Schools of Chemistry, Pharmacy and Life Science, but with reach into departments across the entire University. JBL Science provides a direct link between industry and the scientific research capability in Lincoln, and we are excited to share our expertise and experience with the local communities.


Business Engagement | Home | University of LincolnBusiness Engagement
Services for Business
At the University of Lincoln, we are industry-led and informed, collaborating with private, public and third sector businesses to drive innovation and productivity across our county and beyond, solving real-world industry challenges along the way.
Whether youre looking to upskill and empower your existing workforce, access funding, recruit graduate talent, support your start-up, or collaborate on a research project, were confident that we can help you find theright solution.
What We Offer

Access our academic expertise

Support for start-ups and small businesses

Staff development opportunities

Access to graduate talent and recruitment

Guidance on funding support

Conferencing and events support

Access Our Expertise
Discover Our Expertise
Start-ups and Business Incubation
Help Your Business
Develop Your People
At the heart of every successful business is its workforce. Browse our CPD programmes, short courses, distance-learning degrees, executive training, and bespoke courses.
Staff Development
Recruit a Student or Graduate
Recruitment Support
Funding Opportunities
Our experienced colleagues can help you to access new funding streams, as well as offer advice about the commercialisation of your ideas  taking your business to the next level.
Funding Support
Conferences and Events
re planning, our experienced, professional events specialists are on hand to make sure every last detail is taken care of.", 'Event Support
Industry Links
The University of Lincoln is recognised for excellence in our pioneering approach to working with industry. Our relationships with companies such as Siemens Energy and the Lincolnshire Co-op demonstrate our innovative industry-engaged approach, which has been acknowledged through a series of national awards. We have built a reputation for understanding and responding to the needs of business, forging strong industry links to address specific skills gaps and real-world commercial challenges.
Networking and Events
We deliver a range of industry-facing events across all three of our campuses and the county of Greater Lincolnshire. These include informal networking, workshops, conferences, Career Fairs, sector-specific briefings and Dragons Den-style opportunities for businesses. We also support our partners in delivering their events to provide opportunities for peer-learning, engagement with experts and shared experiences, as well as collaborative working.
Get in Touch
s right for you.", 'Contact Us


Knowledge Transfer Partnerships | Academic Expertise | University of LincolnAccess Our Expertise
Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs)
Funding Research and Innovation
s rich academic resources. It's a dynamic three-way partnership between an organisation seeking expertise, a university, and a graduate.", 'What can a KTP offer your business?
 Embed expertise, generate new knowledge, expand capability and foster a culture of innovation Drive competitive advantage through accelerated innovation and the possibility of creating Intellectual Property Gain privileged, cost-effective access to the UKs world-class knowledge base Increase revenue through access to new markets, new product development, increased productivity and better processes Benefit from the strategic input of a highly experienced Knowledge Transfer Advisor
The cost of a KTP project is shared by the business and by Innovate UK and other government based funders who contribute 50-75% of the project cost via a grant to the academic or research organisation. The business makes a cash contribution for the remaining project cost with third sector parties covering 25% of the costs, small-to-medium business contributing 33% and a large business or public sector organisation 50% per annum. Applications for KTPs enjoy a high chance of being successful, with around 90% of applications being accepted.
The cost to the business is comparable to employing a well-qualified graduate, but includes so much more:
Case Study: Princes Group Ltd.
We are proud to partner with Princes Group Ltd. on a KTP project, bringing in expertise from our National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM). Academics Dr Essam Hebishy, Senior Lecturer in Food Science and Technology, and Dr Bukola Onarinde, Associate Professor have been working on the project with KTP Associate and Food Scientist, Arianna Ortali, and the product development and innovation team at Princes.

Case Study: Arktis Endurance Textiles
s Biomechanics team, led by Dr Franky Malloy, is working with Arktis Endurance Textiles Ltd. on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership project which applies scientific principles and biomechanical analysis techniques to enhance the research and development process for police, military and outdoor load bearing equipment.", '
Case Study: Eminox Ltd.
Running until Autumn 2024, this KTP between the School of Engineering and Eminox Ltd. aims to develop a combined emission after-treatment and exhaust heat recovery system for hydrogen and/or ammonia fuelled combustion engines, in particular for heavy-duty applications, in order to achieve clean emissions and high engine efficiency under zero carbon emissions.

Contact Us
University of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 enterprise@lincoln.ac.uk


Networking and Events | Business Engagement | University of LincolnNetworking and Events
Creating Opportunities and Connections
At the University of Lincoln, we aim to share our knowledge and expertise while bringing businesses together. We offer a range of opportunities and events for businesses to engage with the University, our students, and other organisations in various sectors, enabling them to share ideas and create opportunities for innovation and development.
Our business events include informal networking, workshops, conferences, sector specific briefings and Dragons Den-style opportunities for businesses. We also support our partners in delivering their events to provide opportunities for peer-learning, engagement with experts and shared experiences, as well as collaborative working.
We deliver an annual calendar of events across Lincolnshire. Topics can include innovation, collaborative research and digital-led technology within different sectors, exploring exporting, and general marketing support and advice. We strive to offer a different experience at each of our events to ensure out attendees gain the most from the day and continue to gain an insight into the business support services available across the University.
Innovate in Greater Lincolnshire Events
June and July 2023
For the first time, the University of Lincoln, Innovate UK, and the Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership will be coming together across Greater Lincolnshire to provide valuable insights into the wealth of innovation support, funding mechanisms, external guidance, and academic expertise available to companies across the region and beyond.
GLEAM Network
s manufacturing businesses to connect.", 'Ignite
Ignite is a quarterly networking event hosted by Sparkhouse, the University's incubation centre for start-up companies. The event provides a range of opportunities to meet with other businesses and hear from key guest speakers covering a current topic of interest for small businesses. Visit theSparkhouse websiteto find out more.
LIBS Connect
s Lincoln International Business School, LIBS Connect is a quarterly networking event through which our business community can engage with our team and their peers. It aims to provide themed events throughout the year focusing on topics that are most relevant to members.", '
Careers Events for Students
Our Careers and Employability Team is on hand to support our students throughout their time with us. A variety of employability advice and support workshops are delivered during the academic year, along with a range of events such as the annual University of Lincoln Careers Fair and employer sessions, which give students the opportunity to engage with top graduate recruiters from across many industry areas.
Student Careers Events


The Santander Universities Entrepreneurship Awards | Santander Partnership | University of LincolnSince 2011, Santander has held an annual business pitching competition called the Santander Universities Entrepreneurship Awards. These awards are aimed at giving a financial boost to student and graduate business ventures in their early stages. Participants can win a range of prizes including seed funding, mentoring and start-up support.
In 2018 there are two categories:
The 2018 edition of the awards is now live, with businesses competing for a share of the 90,000 prize money as well as access to a range of other prizes designed to support and help grow their business.
Lincoln Students Reach Semi-Finals
s awards. The semi-finals will take place on 26th June 2018.", '"We are extremely excited to present our business at Santander Universities Entrepreneurship Competition in Glasgow. Myself, Declan and Kris are Business and Management students who have been working on this project for the better part of two years, which started as a presentation assessment for Marketing and it has now evolved into a very promising start-up.
"Our product is an App that provides a tailored platform for students engaging in group work. It has a sole academic focus with necessary tools needed to manage, interact, and perform efficiently within groups. We believe there are too many problems using social media platforms for academic group work, so we founded 'Associate-app'. We managed to secure some funding from Swan's Den before Christmas and we are extatic to be the only business to represent University of Lincoln in the Semi-finals.
"We would like to thank Claire Butler on behalf of UoL's Student Enterprise Building for supporting us throughout the year, the workshops allowed us to learn from professionals which helped us to get to where we are today. We encourage anyone who may have an idea for a business (no matter how small) to sign up for the workshops next year."


Staff Development | University of LincolnIn this section
Invest in Your People
We believe that valued people are at the heart of every successful business. By investing in their development, your organisation can be better prepared for future challenges, with improved productivity and innovative thinking from your teams.
Whether youre looking to invest in further qualifications or want to improve your working culture, the University of Lincoln can help you to empower and upskill your staff.
Choose from our professionally accredited range of courses or chat to our team about bespoke solutions, tailored to your individual business needs.
 Enquire Now
Existing Programmes
Lincoln International Business School Executive Development
Lincoln International Business School offers a range of services to develop effective leadership skills for individuals, teams, and organisations.
Management Programmes (Distance Learning)
We offer a range of distance learning management courses tailored to those in Business, HR, Logistics, and Engineering roles.
Health and Wellbeing Hub
Our Health and Wellbeing Hub works with health service providers to deliver specialist programmes in healthcare and social work.
Military Programmes
As an approved learning provider under the Armed Forces Enhanced Learning Credits (ELC) scheme, our military programmes are designed for serving and ex-serving members of all three services, as well as their MoD civilian colleagues.
Agricultural Specialist Courses
Lincoln Institute of Agri-Food Technology provides essential professional development to working farmers and agronomists through our accredited BASIS and FACTs courses. 
Food Manufacturing CPD at the NCFM
The National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) offers part-time distance learning degrees, as well as industry-led short courses.
Creative Industry Short Courses
The College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities offers a range of short-courses and workshops within media, fashion, conservation, and art that can help to boost your career prospects, or build on your hobbies and interests.
Digitalisation CPD 
These CPD courses are designed to enable you to embrace digitalisation and offer a specifically-designed programme for your business aimed at upskilling your workforce with relevant digitalisation competencies.
Degree Apprenticeships
Degree Apprenticeships offer an alternative to traditional degrees and have been developed in collaboration with employers and professional bodies to ensure they meet the specific needs of industry.
Bespoke Programmes
We can offer bespoke solutions, designed to help you get the learning you and your teams need, precisely when and where you want it.
Options include team workshops, short courses, online learning, and longer-term development plans, including degree apprenticeships.
We're proud to have provided bespoke programmes for various clients, including the Lincolnshire Co-operative, United Lincolnshire Hospitals Trust, Bakkavor, and St Barnabas Hospice.
s support has been really beneficial in terms of developing and up-skilling existing employees, giving us a pathway to our early careers and new employees joining our business. Its really important to have that strong relationship with the University of Lincoln to ensure that we, going forward, have the best possible opportunities for our people.", '- Sharon Blyfield, Coca Cola European Partners
"As a construction company, most of our 600 employees are transient in their working locations, making it essential to have leaders and managers withexcellent communication skills. We searched for an innovative way of delivering this training and partnered with Dr. Roger Bretherton, Associate Professor in the School of Psychology. Roger's approach to Communication Skills training was innovative, thought provoking and enjoyable. The feedback we received was excellent. We wanted training that wasn't an 'off the shelf' course andthe University of Lincolncertainly delivered."
-Sara Hobson, Project Manager - Training,Lindum Group Ltd


"Our Executive Team attended a workshop facilitated by the Lincoln International Business School looking at how we currently operate. They helped us to review our focus and our future development objectives. This gave us a sound basis on which to develop a framework for increasing our performance as a team going forward."
-Chris Wheway, Chief Executive Officer, St Barnabas Hospice

Find Out More
If you would like to find out more about how we can support the training and development needs of you workforce, please get in touch.
Email Us
Research and EnterpriseUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
UK:0800915 5278
International:+44 (0)1522 837200


GLEAM-Network | Industry Links | University of LincolnCreating a Manufacturing Community
The Greater Lincolnshire Engineering And Manufacturing (GLEAM) Network is an initiative founded by the School of Engineering,Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership (GLLEP), and Business Lincolnshire.
s manufacturing businesses to connect.", 'Having already delivered a range of successful virtual events, the network works to support the growth and development of SMEs and large organisations by promoting best practice, innovative solutions, partnership opportunities, and showcase technological advances, cutting-edge thinking, and act as a knowledge-transfer vehicle between academia and industry.
GLEAM provides a knowledge-intensive business corridor locally at the heart of the manufacturing business in Greater Lincolnshire andisopen to all manufacturing businesses in Greater Lincolnshire. Members areable to join free of charge and gain access to a range of benefits, including Affiliate Partner Membership with Make UK.
To express an interest in membership or for more information please email the GLEAM Network team viagleam@lincoln.ac.uk.
Get in Touch
Join GLEAM
If you work for a manufacturing business in Greater Lincolnshire or the Rutland, we'd love for you to join our network. Compete our registration form to gain membership to GLEAM, free of charge. 
Helping Manufacturing Business to Innovate andGrow...
As our network develops, so will the scope of our membership. Participating eligible* businesses will benefit from:
* Please note we are only able to offer one place per company to ensure we can support as many businesses as possible. To qualify for membership, your employer must be a manufacturing business based in Greater Lincolnshire or Rutland. Apologies, it does not support intermediaries, public bodies or financial sector businesses.







With Thanks to...
Business Lincolnshire hosts a Growth Hub  a single place to go to for business experts and mentors, support and guidance, grants and finance. 
Greater Lincolnshire LEP
The purpose of the Greater Lincolnshire LEP is to drive economic growth and to be the voice of the local business community, ensuring that the economic interests of the area are properly represented.
Make UK
Make UK are the voice of British manufacturing and will work with GLMN to deliver the best business environment for our sector. GLMN members are entitled to Affiliate Membership of Make UK, offering access to a range of sector events, resources and discounted products and services.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
The University of Lincoln is home to NCFM - a hub of innovation, product development and educational opportunities for the Food and Drinks sector, located in Holbeach.


Conferences and Events | Business Engagement | University of LincolnConferences and Events
re planning, our experienced, professional events specialists are on hand to make sure every last detail is taken care of.", 'Our Offer
Meetings and Conferences 
If youre looking for an event venue or conference centre then look no further, from our purpose-built meeting rooms to our contemporary eatery with waterside views, we have everything you need to make your event or conference a success.
Catering
Our in-house hospitality team pride themselves on working with local, seasonal produce to create menus for all occasions and dietary needs. From three course dinners to barbecues to afternoon tea, our team can provide a menu that is right for you. 
Accommodation
Give your delegates the complete on-campus experience with our modern en-suite bedrooms, available outside of term time and all within walking distance of our Brayford facilities.
Our Venues
With impressive conference and meeting venues across our two Lincoln campuses, you have the ultimate flexibility to create the size, type, and style of event you need. Whether a one-off meeting up or a week-long conference, our venues are the perfect match for events of all sizes.
Brayford Pool Campus
The Universitys Brayford Pool Campus is located in the heart of our historic city, set on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront. With striking modern buildings and open spaces, it provides the perfect mix of creative and traditional spaces to suit your event needs.
Riseholme Park
Riseholme Park is our rural campus set on the edge of the city of Lincoln, providing a tranquil meeting and event setting within our stunning 200-hectare estate. Allow the woodlands, watercourses, grasslands, and working farm inspire your next event.
To enquire about our range of spaces or to see how we could help you, please contact us through our email address below, or by completing the contact form.
Contact Us
Conferences and Events TeamCharlotte Scott BuildingUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7DH
 conferences@lincoln.ac.uk
 Enquiry Form


Brayford Pool Campus | Conferences and Events | University of LincolnConferences and Events
Brayford Pool Campus
The Universitys Brayford Pool Campus is located in the heart of our historic city, set on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront. With striking modern buildings and open spaces, it provides the perfect mix of creative and traditional spaces to suit your event needs.
Lecture Theatres
From 100-500 person capacity, our state-of-the-art lecture theatres spread across our Brayford campus can accommodate a number of set ups, whatever your event.
Meeting and Seminar Spaces
For smaller events, we have a number of meeting spaces and seminar rooms available. Like our lecture theatres, all are equipped with the latest AV and projection facilities.
Atrium Spaces
Our atrium spaces in the heart of our city campus offer unique, stylish, and spacious settings, perfect for hospitality, drinks receptions, informal presentations, and exhibitions.
Outdoor Spaces
For BBQs and drinks receptions to exhibitions and sporting activities, our outdoor space can host a variety of events and activities.
To enquire about our range of spaces or to see how we could help you, please contact us through our email address below, or by completing the contact form.
Contact Us
Conferences and Events TeamCharlotte Scott BuildingUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7DH
 conferences@lincoln.ac.uk
 Enquiry Form


Riseholme Park | Conferences and Events | University of LincolnConferences and Events
Riseholme Park
Riseholme Park is our rural campus set on the edge of the city of Lincoln, providing a tranquil meeting and event setting within our stunning 200-hectare estate. Allow the woodlands, watercourses, grasslands, and working farm inspire your next event.
Outdoor Spaces
s team building, an outdoor exhibition, or a wedding reception, the possibilities are endless.", 'Riseholme Conference Centre
Surrounded by woodlands and close to the lake, the conference centre is perfect for hosting larger events and conferences. 
Riseholme Hall
Built in 1780, this Grade II listed hall has event space overlooking Riseholme lake, perfect for smaller meetings and events.
To enquire about our range of spaces or to see how we could help you, please contact us through our email address below, or by completing the contact form.
Contact Us
Conferences and Events TeamCharlotte Scott BuildingUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7DH
 conferences@lincoln.ac.uk
 Enquiry Form


Defence and Security | Industry Links | University of LincolnDefence and Security
Supporting the Defence and Security Sector
The defenceand securityindustries areat the cutting edge of monumental changeu2060 ever-evolving to adapt, accelerate, and advancethe UK'sprogress in technology, logistics, and education. As an anchor institution to a region possessing a rich military heritage, the University of Lincoln seeks to engage further with our defenceand securitycommunityu2060 sharing knowledge, developing skills, and encouraging innovationthrough collaborative research.
At theUniversity of Lincoln, weintendto build onour existing sector-wide partnershipsto continue our trajectory in providing evidence-based, sustainable, and forward-thinking solutions for our partners engaged in all forms of defenceand securityactivity.
Education
Management Courses
Lincoln International Business School offers a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the armed forces seeking to gain a new qualification and improve their management skills.
Management Courses
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Programmes
The military MSc programmes offered by our School of Computer Science provide an opportunity for serving and retired military personnel to gain internationally recognised postgraduate awards based, in part, on the prior experience and learning gained during their military service.
ISR Programmes
Selborne Programmes
Team Fisher
About Project Selborne
Pioneering Research
Aligning with our industrial research strategy, academic colleagues across the University are engaged in numerous research projects to solve real-world challenges facing our Defence and Security sectors. Our Defence and Security Research Network (DSRN) seeks to engage with the armed forces and industry partners to find solutions together. If youd like to find out more about our academic expertise relevant to defence, space, and security, please get in touch.
Greater LincolnshireRegional Defence & Security Cluster
The Greater Lincolnshire Regional Defence & Secuity Cluster (GL RDSC) is one of three formally recognised Clusters in the UK. It began as a network and industry-led forum founded by the Greater Lincolnshire LEP, its Defence and Security Advisory Board, and the University of Lincoln. Bringing together national and international defence organisations, manufacturing, research, development and innovation expertise, theCluster provides a single forum to overcome sector challenges and identify business opportunities in Greater Lincolnshire and Rutland, while identifying opportunities for funding and innovation-led initiatives.
 Visitthe GL RDSC website
Latest News
Defence Cluster Status Confirmed
Greater Lincolnshire is now recognised by the Government as a Regional Defence and Security Cluster, after being formally approval by the Governments Defence and Security Accelerator (DASA).
Full Article 
DSEI 2023
The University of Lincoln will be exhibiting alongside the Greater Lincolnshire LEP, Team Lincolnshire and Greater Lincolnshire Regional Defence & Security Cluster (GL RDSC) at DSEI 2023 in September.
Event Information 
Research News: Female Police Officers to Have PPE Tested for Effectiveness
Female police officers and staff will learn about the significant impact breast health and bra choices can have on performance and wellbeing as part of a new trial.
Full Article 
Greater Lincolnshire LEP Podcast
Julian Free CBE, Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln talks to Tony Burnell, CEO at Metis Aerospace in about the ever-expanding range of opportunities for businesses.
Listen Online 
Advice for DASA Applications 
Cracking the DASA Code: Mastering the Art of the Effective Proposal by Alexander Giles, Chief Commercial Officer of Iceni Labs, provides helpful tips on Defence and Security Accelerator funding.
LinkedIn Article 
Partnering with the Supply Chain
As well as supporting our nations armed forces and the MoD, the University works closely with supply chain organisations such as SRC UK, BAE Systems, and Leonardo to deliver collaborative projects, research, and educational partnerships. Our understanding and experience of the sectors demands and challenges from supplier to end user positions us strongly to help our partners innovate, upskill, and increase productivity.
International Bomber Command Centre
s Digital Archive, which collects the personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War 2, both military and civilian, on both sides of the conflict.", 'Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award
Proudly supporting those who serve, we have been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award, being one of the first universities to receive this accolade. We continue to uphold our pledge to support members of the armed forces community, including our students, staff, and wider networks. 
Conservation and Restoration
s College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities, Lincoln Conservation, possesses extensive expertise in conservation and restoration of the interior and exterior features of listed and historic buildings, historic artefacts, easel paintings, and historic paint analysis. The team's work has extended across areas of the military, and with an increased focus on 3D scanning, they have supported our partners increasingly through a digital lens.", "The 'Tedder Talks' Series", 'The Tedder Talks are recorded 20-minute interviews with leading figures in business, academia, and the military. These insightful and varied discussions focus on a particular current and relevant topic of leadership.
Want to Find out More?
If youd like to find out more about any of the projects or specialisms listed on this page, please get in touch for an initial chat and our team will connect you to the appropriate department.
Get in Touch


Project Selborne | Defence and Security | University of LincolnDefence and Security
Selborne Programmes
Delivering Innovative Education for the Royal Navy
The University of Lincoln is the academic partner of 'Team Fisher
Selborne' contract to deliver transformational training and education to the Royal Navy in 2021. The project is named after the early 20th century Royal Navy modernisers, Lord Selborne and Admiral Jacky Fisher and our goal, 100 years on, is to deliver high quality, innovative education for Royal Navy personnel in the 21st century.
The University of Lincoln has an excellent track record in high quality teaching, innovation, and research. As well as providing educational advice and innovative thinking to the Royal Navy, we deliver and validate a range of degree-level and non degree-level education for Royal Navy and Royal Marines personnel.
Teaching takes place at the Britannia Royal Naval College, Dartmouth, where the Maritime Studies Centre is located, with a team of academic staff supporting the education of Royal Navy officers embarking on their careers. One of the defining features of our Selborne educational programmes is their multi-disciplinary nature, covering a range of subject areas from engineering science, through maritime and strategic studies, leadership, music, and social work.
Libertas per Sapientiam
Through Wisdom, Liberty
Call Now Contact Us on Social Media Join Our Mailing List 
If you are an existing applicant wishing to discuss your offer, please call our Admissions Team on +44 01522 437530.
Echoing the Universitys mission and vision of civic engagement, we are passionate about the value and importance of education for our armed forces and we are focused on the quality of their educational experience and ensuring that it meets their needs as future leaders in Defence.
Heber Ackland MVO
Director of Selborne Programmes
Our Courses
Call Now Contact Us on Social Media Join Our Mailing List 
If you are an existing applicant wishing to discuss your offer, please call our Admissions Team on +44 01522 437530.
FdSc Maritime Studies
The Foundation Degree in Maritime Studies is designed for officers joining the Warfare Branch of the Royal Navy. It is based on successful completion of the Royal Navy officer training pipeline from entry at Britannia Royal Naval College (BRNC) to the end at the Maritime Warfare School.
Course Details
BSc (Hons) Maritime and Defence Studies
This programme is intended as a Level 6 top-up to the FdSc Maritime Studies programme and has been designed through consultation with the Royal Navy. It is designed to allow students to further their careers and equip them with the intellectual and cognitive skills demanded of a Naval Officer.
Course Details
BMus (Hons) Professional Music Studies
Delivered in Portsmouth, this programme allows musicians in the Royal Marines Band Service to pursue a professionally relevant degree programme that incorporates their professional work and training. Delivered by the Royal Marines School of Music, the programme covers areas of performance, composition, history, and theory.
Course Details
FdA Leadership and Management
This degree is aimed at those who are undergoing Initial Officers Training at the Royal Marines Commando Training Center (CTCRM). The degree builds directly on the training regime to both recognise the learning which takes place during Initial Officer Training but also to enhance the individual take away of those who succeed.
Course Details
BSc Social Work
We are proud to deliver to selected RNW personnel this full-time, 3-year BSc Social Work Practice, offering a flexible route to qualification as a social worker, delivered via a blended learning method of face-to-face and online teaching.
Maritime Studies Centre, BRNC Dartmouth
The University of Lincolns Maritime Studies Centre is an integral part of Britannia Royal Naval College (BRNC) Dartmouth and is responsible for delivering educational courses and programmes across a range of maritime studies to Royal Navy officers embarking on their professional careers. The Centre is a key element of the Universitys contribution to Project Selborne as part of the Team Fisher partnership delivering and modernising education and training for the Royal Navy.
Work-based Distance Learning
Are you looking for work-based distance learning programmes for military personnel? Explore our range of flexible learning degrees designed to work around the demands of military careers.
Explore Programmes
Call Now Contact Us on Social Media Join Our Mailing List 
If you are an existing applicant wishing to discuss your offer, please call our Admissions Team on +44 01522 437530.
Contact Us
selborneadmin@lincoln.ac.uk
Follow the Maritime Studies Centre on Twitter:
twitter.com/Naval_Insight
More About Project Selborne


Maritime Studies Centre | Project Selborne | University of LincolnMaritime Studies Centre, BRNC Dartmouth
Delivering Educational Courses to the Royal Navy
The University of Lincolns Maritime Studies Centre is an integral part of Britannia Royal Naval College (BRNC) Dartmouth and is responsible for delivering educational courses and programmes across a range of maritime studies to Royal Navy officers embarking on their professional careers. The Centre is a key element of the Universitys contribution to Project Selborne as part of the Team Fisher partnership delivering and modernising education and training for the Royal Navy.
Our Team
The Maritime Studies Centre has a team of 12 permanent academic staff, and a number of part-time Associate Lecturers, overseen by the Director of Studies. Staff deliver a range of multi-disciplinary maritime-related subjects across Arts and Sciences including: Strategic Studies; Naval Warfare and History; Ship Technology; Oceanography and Meteorology; Sensors, Satellites and Telecommunications; and Navigation.
The education is a vital and integrated component of the wider Naval and Leadership training delivered by Britannia Royal Naval College and ensures that officers gain a sound grounding in their profession in both practical and conceptual terms. The education ranges from Level 3 to Level 6, whether that is vital information being passed on to new entry officers undergoing Phase 1 Initial Naval Training (INT), more in-depth Phase 2 professional training leading to degree, or wider Phase 3 development training such as the Naval Analysis Course undertaken before attending the Staff College. The Centre also delivers a dedicated degree programme to officers from the Saudi Arabian Navy and Coastguard.
The formal degree programmes the Centre delivers are as follows:
FdSc Maritime Studies
BSc Maritime and Defence Studies

Fishers Forgotten Legacy
The Selborne Scheme: A Revolution in Naval Education*
Admiral Sir John Arbuthnot Fisher is most commonly associated with overseeing the development of the Dreadnought battleship. Regarded as perhaps the ultimate warship of its time the Dreadnought seemed to launch a new era in battleship design, which anyone who aspired to command the sea would have to emulate and refine. However, when war did break out between Britain and Germany in 1914 the two great fleets were more inclined to avoid direct confrontation of these Leviathans, regarded as far too valuable an asset to risk in the face of enemy fire. By the end of the conflict the age of the battleship itself was on the verge of eclipse. Come the Second World War the battleship soon found itself outclassed, almost defenceless against the new forms of naval warfare that had developed since the last global conflict both beneath and above the seas surface; it was the aircraft carrier that was to emerge from the war as the capital ship of a fleet
If the Dreadnought heralded the beginning of the end of the battleship then Fishers other great legacy to the Royal Navy is still a most tangible part of the modern service. The Selborne Scheme of naval education was but one component of the reforms he was to institute during his time as Second Sea Lord, although it is after the First Lord of the Admiralty, Lord Selborne, that the scheme is generally known. To describe it as a revolution is not mere hyperbole. It offered boys destined to become Naval Officers a very modern education, in particular through its inclusion of theoretical and practical engineering. With some modification, it was to form the basis of training and education at Dartmouth for over forty years  an unprecedented period of continuity in the history of the College. Inevitably Fisher and Selbornes plans met with opposition when first published, on Christmas Day 1902, particularly from older and more conservative officers, active and retired, whose principal objection focused on the introduction of engineering instruction for executive as well as engineering officers and the apparent interchangeability between the two branches. Indeed, some of the original objectives of the scheme, such as the full inclusion of Royal Marine and Engineering officers into a common entry and training, failed to materialise fully. Nevertheless, the Selborne-Fisher Scheme succeeded in establishing Dartmouth as a respectable and unique form of public school, which was to survive in amended form through the upheavals of two world wars, until finally succumbing to the demands of social equality when the thirteen-year-old entry was abolished by the post-war Labour government in 1948.
At the turn of the twentieth century the soundness and efficiency of the Royal Navy was of grave concern. Since the Battle of Trafalgar it had enjoyed almost unchallenged command of the sea, and indeed remained an impressive looking force. Such superiority had however bred complacency. While other newer navies had been quick to assimilate advances in technology the Royal Navy remained psychologically attached to a world in which sails and masts, rather than steam and engines, were the life force of a navy. The system onboard HMS Britannia reflected this illusion with its emphasis on traditional seamanship. The introduction of steam propulsion in the latter half of the nineteenth century had led to the rise of a new breed of naval officer; the engineer. However, coming generally from a lower social class, and engaged in a technical and often dirty occupation the engineer was denied the same status and opportunities as the executive officer, who had received his education on board Britannia. As a result a sharp class divide was distinguishable through the officer corps, while for the vast majority of executive or deck officers, the workings of the engine room remained a mystery. To resolve these problems a new system of entry and education would be necessary in which all officers would receive instruction in engineering allowing those from all social backgrounds to become specialist engineers. Similarly, Royal Marine Officers were found to be largely idle when embarked on ships, lacking any knowledge of the workings of the ship itself, which was a waste of valuable human resources. In addition and perhaps more importantly, a system had to be devised which would provide a wider pool of young officers for the growing number of RN ships, particularly the smaller more modern vessels such as torpedo boats and submarines.
The institution of such a scheme would inevitably require an individual of tremendous energy and vision; this man was to be Admiral Sir John Fisher, who would be responsible during his career in the Admiralty for a series of major reforms, including the introduction of the all-big-gun battleship and the regrouping of fleets on a modern strategic basis. Before his appointment as Second Sea Lord, Fisher had been Commander-in-Chief of the Mediterranean. It was in this post that he was to observe many of the deficiencies of the service, which he was to attempt to remedy later in his career.
Subsequently Selborne invited Fisher to take up the position of Second Sea Lord, the member of the Admiralty Board with responsibility for personnel. Such was Fishers concern for naval training and education that he was willing to take up the post, which would normally have been held by a rear admiral, whereas Fisher was a full admiral. On February 25th 1902, before leaving his post in the Mediterranean, Fisher outlined his ideas in a paper:
The general good and efficiency of the Navy renders it imperative that the entry of Engineer Students at present arranged should be gradually stopped and the entry of Naval Cadets gradually increased in like proportion, and that instruction from the moment of entry into the College at Dartmouth should in large measure, at least half the time, devoted to engineering. That like Gunnery, Torpedo and Navigating as at present, there should be Engineer Officers, Sub-Lieutenants, Lieutenants and Commanders, and going on perhaps to the Captains List and the Flag List, but the pay in view of greater responsibilities (the extra pay, that is) should be such as would perhaps induce officers to prefer remaining in the Engineer Class.1   
Fishers ideas were by no means original. The defence writer and former Royal Marine Sir John Colomb, for example, had been advocating the idea of a common entry for twenty years, and some aspects of the proposed instruction at Dartmouth had been elaborated in an article in National Review, in June 1900, by Rear Admiral C. C. Penrose Fitzgerald. Fisher also sought inspiration and advice from such authorities as Sir Julian Corbett and Captain Christopher Cradock. Consequently Fisher is occasionally criticised for stealing other peoples ideas, while amassing the credit for himself, he was certainly adept at surrounding himself with the most able of men. This was particularly evident in the brilliant appointment of J. A. Ewing, Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Cambridge University, to the newly established post of Director of Naval Education.
The Admiralty scheme for the entry and training of officer cadets, warrant officers, petty officers and men, was published on December 25th 1902. It commenced with the recognition that the Navy has reached a critical period in its development  a development which, steady and comparatively slow for the greater part of the last century, has now for fifteen years proceeded with startling rapidity. During this period steam had replaced sail, wood had been superseded by iron then steel, and cannon replaced by quick-firing guns. The number of officers and men in the Royal Navy and Royal Marines had more than doubled from 60,000 to over 120,000, while a number of foreign navies were now more powerful than the British Navy had been fifteen years ago, although the Royal Navy remained supreme.
In particular it was necessary to recognise, with the demise of masts and yards, the growing importance of engineering. Engineering, practical and theoretical, was to be of greater importance to all naval officers. Moreover executive, engineer and Royal Marine officers would all receive the same training and education until they reached the rank of sub-lieutenant, at the age of about twenty, when they could select their preferred branch, based upon their original preferences as stated on entry. All officer cadets would therefore join under the same conditions.
Entry under the new scheme was to be by nomination following a suitability interview, a qualifying examination and a medical. It was intended to end the competitive nature of the Britannia exam, which had encouraged cramming and subsequently mental exhaustion among cadets. The examination which followed the approval of the First Sea Lord as to the boys suitability, aimed to ensure a level of academic ability. The objective was to allow open competition, enabling the best possible candidates to come forward, providing their parents could afford the fees. For Dartmouth was a public school, run by the Navy; its pupils were not yet in the Navy, but the sole purpose of the school was to provide the Navy with specially educated boys who would become the officers of the future. Fisher himself had reservations about charging fees for a naval education (a sum of 75 per annum plus cost of uniform and other kit and equipment), restricting the pool of future Nelsons, but the system was in fact designed to catch a particular type of boy from a particular middle to upper class background. The aim to abolish the class distinction between the executive and engineering branches should perhaps be more accurately interpreted as attempting to draw both from the same class, rather than extending entry to the lower classes.
Having successfully passed the selection procedure cadets would spend four years at the Royal Naval College. During this time, as Professor Ewing explained in 1906, they would receive a general education on modern lines which should include an exceptionally large element of practical science and engineering.2 The curriculum which, according to Ewing, would resemble that of a good public school, covered instruction in mathematics, heat, electricity; in the science and practice of engineering; in French [plus German for the more able], English composition and literature; in history, both general and naval; in geography, navigation and the elements of seamanship; and in religious knowledge. A good deal of time would also be spent in workshops, including instruction in carpentering and pattern making, in turning, moulding and casting, in blacksmithing and coppersmithing, and in mechanical drawing. The result was to provide an education for the boy who is to become a man of action, not a philosopher.3
Inevitably, given the extent of the reforms being proposed, Fisher and Selborne were met with criticism and opposition for their scheme. Objections centred round the common training of executive and engineer officers. Much of the detractors opposition seems to have been based on sheer snobbery, not wishing to taint the glory of the executive officer with the oil, grime, and heat of the engine-room.4 Indeed the Times journalist James Thursfield, wrote to Fisher telling him of a conversation with Lord Spencer who had been approached by a distinguished person to lead an attack on the scheme. When Lord Spencer refused to do so, the anonymous great man replied; Are you prepared to defend our officers going down in the coal hole?5 But underlying this there was a genuine concern about interchangeablity between the branches reducing the degree of specialist knowledge on board ship. The intention, however, was merely to give deck officers sufficient engineering and scientific knowledge to understand the workings of their ships and weapons systems, while providing engineers (and Marines) with an appreciation of the art of seamanship.
Not all contemporary opinion was against the Fisher-Selborne scheme. The Prince of Wales, a former Britannia cadet, wrote to Fisher:
I call it a grand scheme and wish it every success. No doubt it will be severely criticised by the old ones, who are too conservative for our modern days I am certain the Navy will greatly benefit by having your Engineer and Marine officers drawn from the same class as your Executive officers 6
Even Admiral Lord Charles Beresford, with whom Fisher was later to fall out over his war plans, described the scheme as a brilliant and statesmanlike effort to grapple with a problem upon the sound settlement of which depends the future efficiency of the British Navy. 7
That the scheme fought for by Fisher and Selborne lasted for almost half a century is a mark of the forethought that had contributed to a unique system of naval education. Arguably many of its original objectives failed to transpire; engineers were to remain at a disadvantage and after 1921 were not generally to receive a Dartmouth education, while an increasing number of officers of all branches were to enter the service via the Special Entry at the age of eighteen, too old to be properly moulded for life at sea. Nevertheless Dartmouth had been successfully established as a public school for naval officers, in which it was possible to combine the staff and curriculum for what was recognised as a good general education with the unique professional training the Navy required.


* Based on an article first published in Naval Review, February 2005. See also Harrold J & Porter R (2005): Britannia Royal Naval College 1905-2005: A Century of Officer Training at Dartmouth. Richard Webb, Dartmouth.

1 Mackay R. F. 1973  Fisher of Kilverstone. Clarendon Press, Oxford. p.267)
2 Kemp P.K. (ed.) 1964  The Papers of Admiral Sir John Fisher Volume 2. Spottiswood,
 Ballantyne & Co., London. p.174
3 Ibid. p.179-180
4 Op. sit. Mackay 1973, p.277
5 Marder A. J. 1953  Fear God and Dread Nought  The Correspondence of Admiral of 
 The Fleet Lord Fisher of Kilverstone. Jonathan Cape, London p.268
6 Ibid. p.266-7
7 Fisher, Admiral of the Fleet Lord J. A. 1919  Records. Hodder & Stoughton, London. p.167
Insights from BRNC Dartmouth
Hear from some of the academic delivery team about life at BRNC Dartmouth, as well as an overview of the range of knowledge, expertise, and experience they bring to Royal Navy learners.
Join the Team
The Maritime Studies Centre is home to several full-time academic staff but also associate lecturer staff who have the flexibility of smaller part-time or termly contracts. We are always looking for opportunities to deliver the most contemporary materials to students through continuous curriculum development and through guest lectures from subject matter experts.
We are looking to engage with individuals who would like to share their knowledge, experience, or research. Periodically, we have teaching opportunities for guest or associate lecturers across the variety of subjects delivered. The University of Lincoln prides itself in the support it can offer to employees who wish to develop their skills. 
If you would like to discuss how you could be involved with the activities taking place at BRNC, please get in touch.
Contact Us
Career Opportunities at Lincoln
We offer a range of exciting career opportunities, with competitive salaries, generous benefits packages, training and development programmes, and health and wellbeing support, giving you the chance to reach your full potential.
My transition from working in the maritime civilian and military environment to the academic world with the University of Lincoln has been seamless, due in large part to the extensive continued professional development opportunities offered by Lincoln.
Steven Shanks 
Senior Lecturer in Meteorology and Oceanography
Contact Us
selborneadmin@lincoln.ac.uk
Follow the Maritime Studies Centre on Twitter:
twitter.com/Naval_Insight
More About Project Selborne


Innovate in Greater Lincolnshire | Networking and Events | University of LincolnInnovate in Greater Lincolnshire
Innovation plays a pivotal role in driving business growth, and tapping into the right partnerships, investing in collaborative research, and accessing specialised funding are crucial for maximising your potential.
For the first time, the University of Lincoln, Innovate UK, and the Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership will be coming together across Greater Lincolnshire to provide valuable insights into the wealth of innovation support, funding mechanisms, external guidance, and academic expertise available to companies across the region and beyond.
The events are relevant to businesses across all sectors seeking to accelerate their growth through research and development, fostering new collaborations, and leveraging emerging technologies. Expert panels and networking opportunities will provide practical guidance for developing an innovative culture within your business, highlight the available collaborative opportunities, outline available grant funding and financial support, and feature local case studies.
Attending one of the event can equip you with a solid understanding of the innovation ecosystem on both a local and national level, the routes to developing the necessary partnerships, and an overview of the many forms of financial and grant support available.
Events
To book your place and to view the timetables for each event, please follow the links below.
Speakers and Experts
The events will feature experts from a range of dynamic organisations, including B-hive, the Bridge, OAL, Humber Freeport, Eminox, Catapult Offshore Renewable Energy, CATCH, Streets Chartered Accountants, Crop Intellect, and more.
Get in Touch
If you have any questions about these events, please get in touch with Jessica Boot-Marshall, Industrial Partnerships Manager at the University of Lincoln.
Contact Us


