Chemistry at Lincoln | University of LincolnIn this section
Welcome
Chemistry is the study of the way matter acts, interacts and is transformed for a multitude of uses. It also plays a vital role in tackling global challenges such as energy production, health and wellbeing, food and the use of natural resources. Our Chemistry programmes are designed to develop your ability to apply knowledge to real-world problems through an innovative, integrated approach to core chemical principles.
The programmes are designed with lectures, seminars, laboratory workshops and extensive use of specialist equipment, which provide students with the opportunity to develop hands-on practical skills. In-course challenges based on industry-led, interdisciplinary projects, are undertaken throughout the programme and are key to your development as a professional chemist, applying that real-world knowledge during each working day.
Wide ranges of careers are open to chemists to tackle significant issues of global concern through research by developing new drugs, designing new materials or discovering new knowledge with innovative analytical methods.
Connect with us
School Blog
School Facebook page
School Twitter page
Undergraduate 
Find out more about our Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate 
Find out more about our Postgraduate Courses
Facilities 
Find out more about our Facilities
Connect with Us


College of Health and Science, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool Campus, Lincoln, LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Undergraduate Courses | School of Chemistry | University of LincolnChemistry is the study of the way matter acts, interacts and is transformed for a multitude of uses. It also plays a vital role in tackling global challenges such as energy production, health and wellbeing, food and the use of natural resources. Our Chemistry programmes are designed to develop your ability to apply knowledge to real-world problems through an innovative, integrated approach to core chemical principles.
Our Forensic Science programme addresses the demand for expertise in forensic science tasks, including crime scene investigation, physical evidence collection, sample analysis and defence of testimony. Our rigorous programme incorporates a comprehensive spectrum of subjects and provides a foundation in laboratory work, advanced chemical and biological analysis, and data interpretation.
School of Chemistry Undergraduate Courses



Facilities | University of LincolnIn this section
Welcome
The University of Lincolns city centre campus provides a modern learning environment for our students. Our Brayford Pool Campus has facilities designed for the subject-specific needs of our students. Science students can access specialist equipment and cutting-edge laboratories at our Science and Innovation Park.
Joseph Banks Laboratories
The School of Chemistry is housed in the Universitys Joseph Banks Laboratories where students have access to high-specification instrumentation for spectroscopy, diffraction, imaging and separation science. The facility is part of a multimillion pound investment and forms part of a Science and Innovation Park. You can have opportunities to develop expertise with these facilities throughout your studies, including nuclear magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry, chromatography, electron microscopy and X-ray diffraction. Students in the School of Chemistry can have access to:
You can find out more about how Joseph Banks Laboratories supports Commercial needs with our industry partners, and how we welcome more industry engagement, in the JBL Science website.
Science Building
Study will also take place in the purpose-built Science Building, which offers specialist laboratories and teaching spaces and was fully refitted in 2015. This building contains large chemistry teaching laboratories fitted with integrated fumehoods for advanced chemistry practicals and a dedicated analytical suite. Our courses aim to offer more laboratory hours and extensive access to industry-standard equipment.
Scene of Crime House
A scene of crime house used by students, and police professionals, is located at our Riseholme campus for training in crime scene examination and management. The complex is used by students on the Forensic programmes to develop skills in a range of indoor and outdoor scenarios. Rooms are configured to mimic a range of domestic incidents, including burglaries and drugs raids, which students analyse while being assessed by academics via CCTV. Riseholme is situated three miles outside of Lincoln. Where a module or field study taking place at this campus is an essential part of the course, transport for students is provided.


School of Chemistry | College of Health and Science | University of LincolnWelcome to the School of Chemistry
In the modern day, research and innovation are needed if the chemical sciences are to address the challenges our world faces, coupled with the education and training of talented chemistry graduates. The School of Chemistry at Lincoln aims to bring together research active academic staff and students in a vibrant research-driven environment to develop new chemical innovation and chemists for the future.
Chemistry at Lincoln is developed in partnership with regional and national chemical science companies and organisations, to ensure that the curriculum is current and relevant along with providing educational opportunities for students to engage with employers. Producing employable chemical science graduates underpins the chemistry curriculum at Lincoln.
The School of Chemistry at the University of Lincoln was founded in 2014, with a 6.8m grant from the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE) Catalyst Fund, in close collaboration with industrial partners. By involving industry in every aspect of our activities we aim to ensure our students are fully prepared for future professional careers anywhere in the world.
Chemistry at Lincoln is ranked 3rd in the UK for student satisfaction in the Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 53 ranking institutions).
s School of Chemistry", 'Undergraduate Courses
Explore our undergraduate courses in BSc/ MChem Pharmacy, Chemistry for Drug Discovery, Chemistry with Education, Chemistry with Mathematics, Forensic Chemistry, Forensic Science and Science Foundation Year. 
Chemistry Foundation Year
Discover our alternative route to entry, with the Chemistry Foundation Year which is designed to open up an exciting world of opportunities for students who do not meet our standard entry requirements.
Postgraduate Courses
Explore our postgraduate taught and research courses available in Chemistry and Forensic Science.
s School of Chemistry", 'Facilities
Teaching in the School of Chemistry is delivered in purpose-built facilities, providing innovative spaces for study and research. Explore our science-specific facilities, including the Joseph Banks Laboratories and 'The Crime Scene' house.
Placements
The School of Chemistry offer an innovative end-on full-year placement programme for all students in the fourth year of the MChem programmes. You can read more about placements on our MChem pages.
Staff
Meet our Staff in the School of Chemistry.
Discover our Research and Commercial Services
Research
The School of Chemistry staff are working at the forefront of new discoveries in the sector. Learn more about their research in Chemistry and Forensic Science.
Commercial Services
JBL Science is a commercial research organisation based at the University of Lincoln. Whether you are an emerging biotech company or a large player in the pharmaceutical industry, JBL Science can partner with you in the various stages of the pipeline toward the discovery of the next medicines.
Athena SWAN
Learn more about our commitment in the School of Pharmacy to promoting and advancing womens careers in higher education and research in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine.
Connect with Us


College of Health and Science, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool Campus, Lincoln, LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Postgraduate Programmes | School of Chemistry | University of Lincoln


Forensic Science at Lincoln | University of LincolnIn this section
Welcome
Forensic science requires skills and knowledge to work in a variety of workplace settings including laboratories, crime scenes, and courtrooms. These enable the forensic scientist to apply scientific expertise in criminal investigations. Our Forensic Science programme addresses the demand for expertise in forensic science tasks, including crime scene investigation, physical evidence collection, sample analysis and defence of testimony. This rigorous programme incorporates a comprehensive spectrum of subjects and provides a foundation in laboratory work, advanced chemical and biological analysis, and data interpretation.
Whilst studying at Lincoln you have the opportunity to cultivate your own specialisms, with areas including forensic drug analysis, fire debris analysis, DNA and other biological materials analysis. Furthermore the programme has full accreditation from the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences, meaning you would be eligible for membership.
Connect with us
School Blog
School Facebook page
School Twitter page
Undergraduate Courses

Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Programmes

Postgraduate Courses
Facilities

Facilities at Lincoln
Connect with Us


College of Health and Science, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool Campus, Lincoln, LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Research | University of LincolnIn this section
Welcome
Research activities in the School of Chemistry focus on synthesis, characterisation and application of functional materials: from the development of novel synthetic methods to transform small molecules, to the systematic design and development of materials beyond the molecule that create nano- and microsized assemblies for a wide-range of applications. These studies are complimented with innovative method development in the analysis and simulation of materials.
The School of Chemistry places a strong focus on cross-disciplinary research and collaboration between groups, with the aim of consistently pursuing and achieving groundbreaking discoveries across the fields of science. The School is currently collaborating with Lincoln Institute of Agri-Food Technology, Lincoln Institute for Health, National Centre for Food Manufacturing, as well as the Schools of Pharmacy, Life Sciences, Engineering and Mathematics and Physics. In addition, the School has strong international research links.
Major instrumentation includes: modern NMR (including multinuclear and solid state probes); single crystal and powder X-ray diffraction; thermal analysis (including evolved gas analysis with MS and FT-IR); NIR/MIR/FIR spectroscopy, FT- and micro- Raman; LC-Orbitrap, LC-triplequad and GC-triplequad mass spectrometry and SEM-EDX. Specialist instrument scientists are available to assist researchers with advanced method development with this equipment. Smaller scale analytical instrumentation includes atomic emission spectroscopy, gas, liquid and ion chromatography, electrochemistry, DLS nanoparticle and zeta-potential measurement, UV-vis and CD spectroscopy, and X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy. Dedicated resources for sample preparation includes high-throughput robot systems, spray- and freeze-driers, constant temperature/humidity ovens and advanced microwave and extraction facilities for acid digestion.
Small-scale lab equipment to support synthetic chemistry includes hydrogenation, photochemical, ozonolysis and microwave synthesis systems, peptide synthesis and preparative chromatography, and glove box, Schlenk and solvent purification apparatus.


Staff Contact List | School of Chemistry | University of LincolnSchool of Chemistry Staff


