Testimonials | Clearing | University of LincolnTestimonials
Hear from Our Students
Thinking about applying to join us through Clearing? Read more about the experiences of our students who joined us through Clearing and get a feel for why Lincoln is such a great place to live and learn. There’s still time to join us this autumn with vacancies across a range of subject areas.Call Us Now: 0808 164 4444DM Us on Social Media
Rachel Pearce, BA (Hons) Fine Art
A Level results day started badly for Rachel.I didnt do as well as Id hoped. I got nervous and flunked them a bit. It had been a stressful day and the University of Lincoln were so lovely. They had been dealing with a lot of people like me, they understood and helped with everything.
The University of Lincoln were able to offer Rachel a place to study fine art.
I was so relieved. I was ecstatic that Id managed to get into Lincoln. Any course would have been really good, but to do it at Lincoln was incredible.
Rachel has now graduated and loved her time at Lincoln.
The course was really good, you learn practical and transferable skills. Everyone was so nice, no one cared that I came through clearing at all!


George Wyatt, BA (Hons) Marketing Management
George Wyatt gained his place to study Marketing Management through clearing.
Once you get to university, it doesnt matter if you came through clearing, its freshers week and its one of the best weeks of your life.
Once you get to university, the route youve taken doesnt matter. I would say youre going to end up where youre meant to be, and if you go to Lincoln you will have the best three years ever.“
George loved Lincoln for a few different reasons.
The lecturers are amazing, and the Students Union is also great, its a beautiful campus.



Clearing | Home | University of LincolnClearing 2023


Visit the Campus | Clearing | University of LincolnConnect With Us on Social Media


Course Vacancies | Clearing | University of LincolnClearing 2022
Courses Available
Find Your Course
The University of Lincoln is among the top 20 universities in the UK for student satisfaction in the Guardian University Guide 2022. We are accepting applicants through Clearing for selected courses for 2022 entry. The courses we have available can be found using the search below.
When you call, please have to hand your UCAS Clearing Number (if applicable) and Personal ID, which can be found on the UCAS Hub.
Find Your Course
377 Courses listed below
No courses match your filter query, please try again


Teachers and Parents | Clearing | University of LincolnClearing 2023
Guidance for Parents, Guardians, and Teachers
Advice for Parents and Guardians
We understand that the lead up to results and results day can be a nervous time. However, there is plenty you can do help prepare for the day and be ready for provide your child with the support they may need during results day and Clearing.
ve receivedtheir exam results. Its also the final chance for universities to fill any places they still have available.”, ‘Before Results Day
When Results are Released
Clearing Explained
Explore our Clearing guide to find out more about what Clearing is and how students can prepare in advance.
Guidance for Teachers
 transition to higher education, and as teachers and advisors you play an important role in preparing your students for results day.“, ’Students may achieve the grades they need for their firm or insurance choice, get better grades than expected, or not get the grades they need and change their minds on what to study. Any of these situations may lead to them looking for a different course through Clearing, and they may require guidance and support throughout the process.
How to Prepare
Supporting Students on the Day
Both students and parents may need support on results day. Many students will get the results they expected, or better, but othersmay be disappointed. Be prepared to speak to these students and advise their parents as they look to you for guidance. The best way to help disappointed or upset students is to show them how many different routes they can take and the different options available to them.


Open House | Clearing | University of LincolnClearing 2023
Open House Weekend
Visit Us
To really get a feel of what it might be like to study with us at Lincoln, werecommend that you visit us in person. Our striking city centre campus provides a modern student-centred community, and almost everything youll need is either on campus or a short walk away.
We’ll be running Clearing Open House weekend events on Friday 18, Saturday 19, and Sunday 20 August 2023, from 10am until 2pm.
You will be able to attend a welcome talk, learn more about the next steps to starting with us this September, and find out more about our accommodation. There will also be plenty of time to speak to our friendly staff and students, and explore our beautiful Brayford Pool Campus and the historic city of Lincoln.
Register Now
In addition to our Clearing Open House weekend events, we are also running a series of Open Campus events alongside our full undergraduate Open Days this summer, providing plenty of opportunities to visit us.
Applying Through Clearing
Clearing opens on 5 July for 2023 entry and is a great way to find the ideal course for you if you are not holding any university offers or have not yet applied. A full list of undergraduate courses with places available for 2023 entry will be published on our Clearing website.
For more information about joining us through Clearing or about our upcoming events, you can contact our Enquiries Team by email atenquiries@lincoln.ac.ukor by calling 01522 886644.


Next Steps | Clearing | University of LincolnNext Steps
If youve had an offer to join us through Clearing, congratulations! This page is designed to help you through the next steps of the process, so you can start looking forward joining us this September.
Confirm and Accept Your Offer
If we have made you an offer of a place through Clearing, you need to make the University of Lincoln your Clearing choice on UCAS Hub before your place is confirmed.
Our Admissions Team will then review the referral and confirm your place. You may need to send us evidence of qualifications or results before your offer can be confirmed.
Prepare Your Finances
If you‘ve already applied for funding but have changed your course or university during Clearing, you’ll need to update your details. You can find how to do this online at https://www.gov.uk/guidance/updating-your-personal-details.
t applied for student finance yet, you’ll need to do this as soon as you’ve accepted your Clearing place. You can apply online for Tuition Fee Loans and Maintenance Loans.”, ‘Apply Online
Budgeting Support
We know that going to university is a big step, especially with the rising cost of living. Manging your money well is important to ensure you can cover everything you will need. You can access a wide range of resources to help you plan your finances, including our dedicated Cost of Living Hub, on our website. You can also find about scholarships, bursaries, and our Disabled Students Allowance.
Fees and Funding at Lincoln Cost of Living Hub UCAS Student Budgeting
Find Accommodation
s time to find your new home from home. At Lincoln, we offer a great range of high quality accommodation at sought-after locations in the heart of the city. All of our accommodation is either on campus or a short distance away, which means that almost everything you could need is right on your doorstep.“, ’Step 5: Get Ready for Lincoln!
Once your place at Lincoln has been confirmed, you can start looking forward to beginning your first term with us in September.
We cant wait to welcome our new students and bring them the amazing student experience Lincoln has become known for. Our teams are working on a range of exciting activities and events to welcome you to Lincoln if you join us. Welcome Week is scheduled to start on Monday 18 September 2023.
ll also find out more about enrolment and the process for formally joining the University.”, ‘Get Ready for Lincoln
Any Questions?
If you need to contact us about your Clearing offer, you can call our Clearing Hotline on 0808 164 4444.
If you have any further questions about studying at Lincoln, you can also contact our friendly Enquiries Team by calling +44(0)1522 886644 or by emailing enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk.


Clearing Stories | Clearing | University of LincolnClearing Stories
Starting Your Journey Through Clearing
Clearing is a great opportunity to secure a place on your dream course, and thousands of students take this route to university each year. However, the process can also be daunting, and it is reassuring to know that other people have been in the same position as you. We have brought togethersome of thesuccess stories of our students who came to us through Clearing and are now embarking on successful careers.
s Story“, ’Shantae came to the University of Lincoln through Clearing in 2020, pursing her passion for chemistry to study MChem Forensic Chemistry. Alongside access to the wide range of facilities at the University, she also benefitted from an opportunity in her final year to undertake a placement at Bard Pharmaceuticals. Since graduating, Shantae has gone on work at AstraZeneca as a Chemical, Manufacturing and Controls (CMC) Regulatory Affairs Associate in Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolic (CVRM).
s Story”, ‘A number of our Clearing applicants come to ushaving changed their mind on results day about their first choice university. By self-releasing into Clearing, they are able to find a university which suits them. Nathan Johnson was one of these students and he gained a place on our BSc (Hons) Computer Science course through Clearing. Nathan also came along to visit Lincoln before he started with us and was impressed by modern facilities. Since graduating, Nathan has gone on to work at Microsoft as a Customer Engineer.

The Clearing process was very straightforward. I initially had an unconditional offer from another university to study computer science. However, I realised after results day that this was not where I wanted to study. I was able to call up Lincoln and receive an offer within a few minutes. 
Nathan Johnson, BSc (Hons) Computer Science
Customer Engineer at Microsoft
s Story“, ’Lots of students apply to university for the first time through Clearing. Be it not having been sure about university earlier on or wanting to wait to get results. This was the case for Francesca Cann who applied to Lincoln after getting her A Level results. Since studying LLB (Hons) Law at Lincoln she has gone on to become a Paralegal at Edmondson Hall Solicitors.
s Story”, ‘Francesca Cann, LLB (Hons) Law
“I had always dreamed of becoming a lawyer but doubted myself and chose not to apply. When I received my A Level results, I called up the University of Lincoln, applied through Clearing, and got a place on the Law course. Without this opportunity, I would not be where I am today!”
s Journey“, ”For many students, Clearing is a great opportunity to still get to University if things haven’t gone to plan on results day. Tom Candy missed out on his original university choice, and through Clearing was accepted onto the University of Lincoln’s BSc (Hons) Bioventinary Science Course. After falling in love with Lincoln, he also went on to do a Master’s course in clinical animal behaviour. It was his time at Lincoln which gave him the opportunities to develop his love for animal behaviour, and set him up for future success.", 'Getting a place through Clearing changed the direction of my work life in a massive way. Fast Forward 10 years and I am now working my dream job as a Senior Training and Behaviour Advisor at Dogs Trust.
Tom Candy, Bsc (Hons) Biovetinary Science and Msc Clinical Animal Behaviour
Senior Training and Behaviour Advisor at Dogs Trust
Contact Us
Admissions Team+44 01522 437530(Monday to Friday 10am — 3pm)
admissions@lincoln.ac.uk


[]


