Guidance for Visitors | Coronavirus | University of LincolnKeeping Our Campus Safe
The health and wellbeing of our staff, students, authorised visitors, and the wider community remains our priority.
All visitors to our campus are requested to observe the Universitys current guidance on the use of face coverings and asked to follow social distancing principles and signage.
Visitors and contractors are asked to monitor themselves for Covid-19 symptoms prior to travelling to the University. If you have any symptoms you should self-isolate, book a test, and not travel to the campus. You can check symptoms using the NHS 111 Online Service and on the NHS web page.
Policy for Visitors Coming Onto Campus
At present, all visits to campus must be by prior arrangement only with the relevant University department (host).Approval for visitors to tenant organisations must follow the process established by their host building/department, which will follow the principles of this policy. The University host must receive all necessary information and assurances prior to any visits to the University campus.
Scheduling for essential visits may need to be revised to reduce interaction and overlap between people on campus. Your University hosts will ensure your visit is organised to promote safety for all.
Visitors are expected to wear a face covering in all indoor University premises (unless you have a legitimate reason not to). If you are driving to campus, parking must be arranged through your University host or by theEstates Support Desk before you set off. We will attempt to provide parking as close to the location of the visit as possible.
Records will be maintained of all visitors by the relevant University department, including individual names present at any meetings, times, and locations of campus visit.
Once approval is received, the University host must ensure:
Failure to follow the policy will result in an investigation and may result in disciplinary action.
Post Visit Requirements
All visitors should be made aware of the importance of notifying their University host if they display symptoms and/or receive a positive test for Covid-19 within 14 days of their visit. This will allow the University to take the necessary action and instigate track and trace procedures. The University host must inform the University Incident Manager immediately.
We continue to keep the Covid-19 guidance updated and this should be referred to post visit to understand changes to practice that may come into effect between visits.
It is a requirement of being allowed to visit the University that all visitors to University campuses must agree to complete the University Visitor Covid-19 Exposure Declaration Form and provide their name and contact details. The University will retain the information for 21 days for the purposes of track and trace, after which time it will be destroyed to the standard required for confidential information.
Policy for Visitors Coming Onto Campuses (PDF)
Covid-19 Visitor Declaration Form (PDF)
Covid-19 Visitor Declaration Form (Word)

Useful Contacts

Student Support
Tel:+44(0)1522 837080
Email:studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk
Student Accommodation Services
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886189
Email:accommodation@lincoln.ac.uk
Human Resources
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886775
Email:hr@lincoln.ac.uk

For the latest official Government guidance, please visit:www.gov.uk/coronavirus


Privacy Notice | Asymptomatic Testing | University of LincolnAsymptomatic Test Booking Privacy Notice
Your Personal Information
This Privacy Notice covers circumstances when your personal data is processed for assisting the NHS Test and Trace service and / or local public health authorities where necessary to help minimise and manage the transmission of Covid-19. This notice explains more about how we use your personal information.
What Information We Collect About You and the Source of the Information
We collect information about you when either yourself, an individual you have been in contact with, or the NHS and/or local public health authority, has provided information to us about suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19.
Staff and Students may provide information to us using the University COVID Report Forms, available via the coronavirus pages.
The information collected for staff via the above form includes name, username, job title, employment type, mobile number, School/Department, Covid-19 symptom and status information.
The information collected for students via the above form includes name, email address, phone number, College, School, covid-19 symptom and status information, whether they have informed their personal tutor, whether they have attended any sports/societies or events, whether they are also a member of student-staff, what their accommodation type is, and names of individuals they have been in close contact with.
The NHS and/or local public health authority will share information directly with us where it is aware of a positive Covid-19 staff or student case. This information would include name, date of birth, address and covid-19 status information.
The University holds contact details for its students on the Student Record and for Staff via Human Resources MyView system. Where an individual has been named within a COVID Report Form, the University may process the data it holds on its Student and Staff Records in order to perform contact tracing.
The University captures information about staff members physical use of on-campus facilities via rotas established for working on campus, or via teaching timetables. The University captures information about students face to face teaching and tutorial attendance and their physical use of on-campus facilities, such as the Library. For Test and Trace purposes the University may use the above information, in addition to the information provided via the University COVID Report Forms, to identify where you have been on campus and when, in order to perform contact tracing.
Students should ensure that they keep their contact details up to date by contacting studentrecords@lincoln.ac.ukwith any changes.
Staff should ensure that they keep their contact details up to date by amending these via the My Information tab on MyView.
How We Use Your Information
We collect information about you to support the wider effort to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.
The University will use the information we collect in order to: identify individuals who may have been in contact with someone who is displaying symptoms or who tests positive for Covid-19; to notify individuals (students, staff, visitors) that they have been in contact with someone who has symptoms and/or has tested positive or negative; to provide appropriate guidance and support to them; and to help the University to take necessary steps (such as additional cleaning or further activity risk assessment) to ensure a safe learning and working environment for all.The University must identify relevant lawful basis for processing personal data. For the above purposes these are as follows:-the processing is necessary to comply with the legal obligations placed upon it by ensuring health and safety within the University environment.-the processing is necessary for the University to perform a task in the public interest which includes providing a safe learning and teaching environment.
-the processing is necessary for the Universitys legitimate interests in providing relevant support and guidance to individuals, such as students who might be self-isolating.
Information about an individuals health is considered special category data and the University requires additional lawful basis to be identified in order to process this data. The University has identified that processing such special category data is necessary for the purpose of carrying out the obligations and exercising specific rights of the University or of individual data subjects in the field of employment and social security and social protection law; for reasons of substantial public interest; and for reasons of public interest in the area of public health.Information will be processed in accordance with the Universitys Data Protection Policy.
The University occasionally uses cookies and other technologies on its website that collect data about you when you use them. Where this occurs further information will be available in a cookies policy. The cookies policy for the University website can be found at www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/termsconditions.
Information We Share With Other Organisations
The University may share data we hold for the purposes of investigating allegations of student misconduct with external organisations and bodies, where the law permits and it is considered appropriate under the circumstances.
NHS and Local Public Health Authorities:The University may share information about you with the NHS Test and Trace service and/or local public health authorities if this is requested by them. Information will be shared with the NHS for the purposes of supporting the test and trace effort for preventing the spread of Covid- 19. This will be where an individual (who has reported to NHS Test and Trace Covid-19 symptoms or a positive Covid-19 test result) that they have recently been in close contact with you at the University. Information shared normally would include your name, either a contact phone number or e-mail and may need to include information weve recorded about your activity and location on campus.
Information will also be shared with the University by the NHS Test and Trace service and/or local public health authorities where there is a positive case of Covid-19 relating to our staff or students, in order that the University can take necessary steps under its Test and Trace process to assist in preventing the spread of Covid-19.
The University considers this sharing to be necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest; supporting efforts to control the spread of Covid-19, and for special category data, that this is necessary for reasons of public health.
Office for Students:The University will share anonymised information with the Office for Students in order to comply with its legal obligations. Individuals will not be identifiable from this data.
We use a number of suppliers who process personal information on our behalf. These include suppliers of software services. These act strictly on our instructions and must not use the information for their own purposes.
How Long We Keep Your Information
The University will retain the data it receives about students experiencing Covid-19 symptoms or receiving positive test result for five years, unless the data is later required for further separate purposes such as to support an academic review request or extenuating circumstances claim. Students will be provided with a relevant privacy notice at those points regarding the retention of the data for those further purposes.
The University will retain data about staff in accordance with the retention period for sickness and absence management.
The University will retain data collected for other purposes for the periods that are set out under those other relevant privacy notices.
Accessing Your Information and Other Rights
Access -You have the right to request a copy of any personal information we hold about you. If you would like a copy of any of your information please contact the Information Compliance team on the details below. The team will process your request within a month.
Portability -If you have provided information on the basis of your consent or for acontract then you can request a digital copy so you can send it to another organisation. To request a copy please contact the Information Compliance team on the details below. The team will process your request within a month.
Correction - If any of the information we hold about you is incorrect or incomplete then please let us know. You have the right to have your information corrected so that we hold accurate records about you.
Erasure -This is also known as the right to be forgotten. You can request that your personal information is erased if it is no longer necessary for the University to keep it,or you withdraw consent that you have previously provided, or you object and there is no overriding grounds to keep it or if it is unlawful to continue to keep it.
Restriction -You can request that the use of your personal information is limited to storage only and that we use it for no other purpose. This applies where you contest the accuracy of the personal information we hold, or our use of the information is unlawful, or we no longer need the information except in relation to legal claims, or you object to the use of your data and we need to verify whether or not our purpose for keeping it overrides the grounds of your objection.
In some cases the University may be entitled to refuse rights requests where relevant exceptions apply. To exercise your rights, the Information Compliance Team can be contacted by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at: Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
How to Contact Us
For enquiries regarding the Test and Trace processes, please contact the team via centraltandt@lincoln.ac.uk.
For general enquiries please call 01522 88 2000 or write to University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can find contact details forindividual teams and staffhere.
If you have a query about your personal information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
How to Complain
If you feel that we have let you down in relation to your information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can also make complaints directly to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the independent authority upholding information rights for the UK. Their website is ico.org.uk and their telephone helpline number is 0303 123 1113.
Changes to Our Privacy Policy
Any changes we make to our privacy notice in the future will be posted on this page and, where appropriate, notified to you by e-mail. Please check back frequently to see any updates or changes to our privacy notice.



Building Status | Coronavirus | University of LincolnChanges to Campus Hours and Guidelines
The University of Lincoln remains open to support our students. The Library, Student Support Centre, Student Wellbeing Centre, and Health Centre are open, both on campus and online, and support continues to be available for students through personal tutors and the Students Union.
While our campus remains open, there has been a change in opening hours for some buildings.

Bridge HouseHuman Performance Centre David Chiddick Janet Lane-Claypon Alfred TennysonNicola de la Haye
These buildings are currently operating on reduced hours and will close at 6pm, Monday to Friday
Village HallStephen Langton Building
These buildings are open for timetabled teaching only
Lincoln Performing Arts CentrePeter de Wint BuildingSports CentreOne Campus Way*
These buildings are currently closed
*laundrette remains open
All other buildings
The opening hours for all buildings remain unchanged , i.e 7am  10pm.
Please ensure you always carry your University ID card with you when on campus; you will need to use this to access some buildings.
Staff who require access to campus must have their requests authorised by their Head of Department prior to attending. The University HR Department is also able to provide letters for University staff who are essential workers.
Any queries about campus can be directed to the Support Desk atestatessupport@lincoln.ac.uk and you can find more information at https://estates.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/welcome-back-to-campus/.
Staff and students are reminded they should arrange an asymptomatic COVID-19 test before accessing any University facilities, through the booking form at https://lncn.ac/tct.
While on the University campus you should continue to
We all have a role to play in our community on campus and in Lincoln, not just in staying safe and reducing the risk of transmission of Coronavirus, but importantly in creating the vibrant, exciting, and engaging academic environment for which Lincoln is known: as One Community of staff and students, supporting each other to grow and thrive.
Contacts
Queries about campus opening can be directed to the Estates Support Desk at estatessupport@lincoln.ac.uk.
Student Support
Telephone: +44(0)1522 837080 Email: studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk.
Student Accommodation Services
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886189 Email: accommodation@lincoln.ac.uk.
Security
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886062
COVID-19 Guidelines:
Please remember, if as a student you are permitted to return to campus in January 2021 (see announcements on the latest Government restrictions below) then you should take an asymptomatic test and receive a negative result before accessing university facilities. If you choose not to take a test, you should self-isolate for 10 days on your return to university.
When you are on campus, please remember to:
Students and staff can book a free asymptomatic test for Coronavirus at: https://lncn.ac/tct.
It is essential that students and staff follow official advice if they or anyone in their household develops Coronavirus symptoms. If this happens, please remember to:


Asymptomatic Testing | Coronavirus | University of LincolnAsymptomatic Testing
Staff and studentsshouldtake asymptomatic tests for Coronavirusbefore attending any face-to-face teaching sessions or accessing University facilities, including the Library.u202f
Asymptomatic testing uses a simple swab test called a Lateral Flow Device (LFD) test. This is different to the PCR tests used for suspected cases of Covid-19. The LFD test is painless, self-administered, and should take less than15minutes. Results are provided by SMS text message or email, usually withinonehour.
If you are on campus, please take two LFD tests three or four days apart each week. Only go onto campus if you receive a negative result.Asymptomatic testing is important to protecting our community because some people who have Covid-19 have very mild symptoms or no symptoms at all and can transmit the virus to others without knowing it.
s on-campus Asymptomatic Testing Centre closed at the end of October 2021 to support a move towards self-testing viaLFD collect test kits. University students and staff can obtain home tests kit from any of the following LFD Collection Points on campus:", 'Alternatively, staff and students can order LFD test kits directly to their home addressvia the gov.uk website.
All staff and students are strongly encouraged to continue to test and report every Covid-19 test result (positive, negative, or void) to the UniversitysTest, Care and Trace system and the NHS.
The vast majority of LFD tests return a negative result but if someone does test positive, they would need totake a confirmatory PCR test. If the PCR test is also positive, they would need to self-isolate, as would members of their household unless they are exempt (for example, because they are fully vaccinated). The rules on self-isolation have changed since Roadmap Step 4. For the latest advice, see the NHS website.
For more information, please visit our coronavirus web pages.
Useful Contacts

Student Support
Tel:+44(0)1522 837080
Email:studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk
Student Accommodation Services
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886189
Email:accommodation@lincoln.ac.uk
Human Resources
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886775
Email:hr@lincoln.ac.uk

For the latest official Government guidance, please visit:www.gov.uk/coronavirus


Coronavirus | Home | University of LincolnWe Are One Community
We can all play our part in creating the vibrant, exciting, and engaging academic environment for which Lincoln is renowned One Community of staff and students helping each other to grow and thrive. Staying safe, reducing the risk of transmission of Coronavirus, and supporting each other at University are all key elements of our One Community.
The Governments new Plan for Living with Covid-19means that allremaining Covid-19 legal restrictions have been removed in England (from 24 February 2022).
We are immensely grateful to all members of the University for how they have responded and adapted to the challenges of the pandemic over the past two years. The lifting of legal restrictions places additional emphasis on the personal and collective responsibility we all have to support and protect one another.
s Asymptomatic Testing Site and Test, Care and Trace service have now been stood down.", 'People who have symptoms of Covid-19 or who test positive are still advised to stay at home and avoid contact with other people for five days. Details on what to do if you think you have Covid-19, including an updated list of symptoms, are available via theNHS website.
Government guidance continues toencourage the wearing of face coverings in crowded and enclosed spaceswhere you come into contact with people you do not normally meet. Students and staff are encouraged to wear a face covering in the Library, due to the high numbers of people who use the building daily. Elsewhere on campus, we recognise some members of our community may prefer the additional protection afforded by face coverings. As members of One Community we should respect each others preferences and wear a face covering if asked to do so.
We can all continue to take sensible precautions to reduce the risk of transmission, including by exercisinggood hand hygiene. Hand sanitation points will remain in place across campus. The University continues to encourage students and staff toget vaccinated, including getting booster doses, as soon as possible.
The Governments latest guidance can be found on thegov.uk website.

Prioritising Face-to-Face Teaching
At the University of Lincoln, we strive to ensure our students experience is engaging, supportive, and academically challenging. Throughout the Coronavirus pandemic, we have adapted to Government guidance to keep our students, staff, and community safe. All remaining Covid-19 legal restrictions in England were lifted in February 2022 under the Governments Plan for Living with Covid-19, and we have embraced a safe return to in-person teaching on campus. Where appropriate, face-to-face teaching is enhanced by the use of digital tools and technology and may be complemented by online opportunities where these support learning outcomes.
We are fully prepared to adapt our plans if changes in Government guidance make this necessary, and we will endeavour to keep current and prospective students informed.


Online Attendance Registers
Online student attendance registershave been introduced so students no longer need to sign a physical register in compulsory face-to-face teaching sessions. You will be given a unique six-digit code at the start of compulsory classes to register your attendance via your phone, tablet or laptop through a simple new web platform.
t attend a session, you must submit an authorised absence request via Blackboard.", '
Hand Hygiene and Cleaning
There are hand sanitiser stations across campus, including at building entrances. You should wash or sanitise your hands whenever you enter or exit any of our buildings or teaching spaces. Hand sanitiser gel will be available in classrooms and other teaching facilities, or you can bring your own supplies if you want to. If you are using equipment, your tutor will also remind you about sanitising your hands before and after using it.
We have put in place enhanced cleaning regimes across campus, with a focus on commonly touched surfaces like door handles and handrails.

Visiting the University
All visitors to the University are asked to follow Government guidance prior, during and after their visit to help prevent the spread of Coronavirus. The latest guidance can be found on the gov.uk website. Please be aware that specific approaches may be taken by the University for certain events and activities. Please liaise with your relevant University host if you have any questions prior to your visit.

University of Lincoln Outbreak Plan
The University Outbreak Plan forms part of a suite of plans and documents which aim to create a Covid-secure campus and, together, set out how the University of Lincoln will seek to sustain high quality teaching and research; provide a good student experience; reduce the risk of transmission of the virus; and manage the impact of a local outbreak and control any outbreaks either on campus, or amongst staff and students. Download theUniversity of Lincoln Outbreak Plan (PDF).
For University policies related to Covid-19, including Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), please see our University Policies page.

Our Community Living Pledge
s important that everyone plays their part in keeping our community safe by being responsible in how they act on and off-campus. This means following any Government rules,local authority and public health advice, and guidance from the University. At enrolment and re-enrolment this year, well be asking all students to sign up to our Community Living Pledge. This sets out some of the standards of behaviour expected during these exceptional times, and links to the University Regulations, Student Charter, and our One Community Values.", '
Useful Contacts

Student Support
Tel:+44(0)1522 837080
Email:studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk
Student Accommodation Services
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886189
Email:accommodation@lincoln.ac.uk
Human Resources
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886775
Email:hr@lincoln.ac.uk

For the latest official Government guidance, please visit:www.gov.uk/coronavirus


Vaccine Survey | Coronavirus | University of LincolnOverview
The University of Lincoln is inviting University staff and students to complete a second short, anonymous survey to help inform our understanding of Coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccination uptake across our University community.
The survey is voluntary and open to all students and staff at the University, whether or not you have had the vaccine yet. It is anonymous and responses will not be linked back to individuals. It would be incredibly helpful to have as many responses as possible in order to accurately inform our planning.Aggregated data from the survey will help to inform the Universitys planning to support our community as we enter in to the new year. Institutional level data may also be reported to the Office for Students and other public bodies such as the Department for Education, Department of Health and Social Care, and Public Health England.
Students and staff can complete the survey using the link below:
https://unilincolnlalt.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8oeWMbkVXo2Yce2
The survey will remain open between Monday 6th December and Friday 17th December 2021.
For furtherdetails on how the information you provide will be used, please read our Privacy Notice.



Teaching Spaces | Coronavirus | University of LincolnSafe Teaching and Learning
We have introduced a number of safety measures on campus to minimise the risk to students and staff while engaging in teaching and learning. These are based on current Government guidance.
Firstly, please remember that if you think you may have any of the symptoms associated with the COVID-19 infection, stay at home, book and take a test, inform the University COVID Test and Trace Team, and follow Government advice.
General Guidance
Upon entering a building, students should make their way to the timetabled space and arrive on time to avoid queuing outside rooms. If you do have to queue, please maintain social distancing at all times.
Students are asked to follow any one way systems in place for the building and avoid using the lifts in buildings unless necessary. Where there are multiple entrances to teaching spaces, they should follow the signage or guidance of staff members who will identify the entrance and exit points that should be used.
Access to teaching spaces is for timetabled delivery only. When opening or closing doors or operating light switches, always use hand sanitiser. Do not spend longer in enclosed teaching spaces than scheduled, and before you leave a teaching building, wash your hands with soap and water or use the hand sanitiser provided as you exit.
If you require first aid support, please contact security on 01522 886062 in the first instance. You can also report any issues with these new processes or if they are not being followed by others.
Teaching Sessions
Students will be organised into teaching bubbles as far as module arrangements allow. Students should not move between bubbles (swapping groups will not be possible). Most students will be in several bubbles, depending on their programme arrangements. If students have a problem attending a session because of timing, they should speak to their personal tutor in the first instance.
At the start of your first session with a new bubble (teaching group), the tutor leading the session will discuss the protocols with you and ensure you can ask any questions. The session lead is responsible for keeping an electronic record of student attendance at each session.
Classroom-type teaching spaces will be laid out so that all students are socially distanced (1.5m plus) and front facing. Spaces with fixed seating will be clearly signed, and students should only use the dedicated seats and not remove signage.
Students will wear face coverings during teaching. Visors may also be worn and these will be provided. In some specialist teaching sessions alternative PPE will be used. Staff will wear either a face covering or a visor during teaching. Some staff and students may be exempt from wearing a face covering and in these cases a visor should be worn. Where there are accessibility requirements, fo example, lip-reading requirements, a visor will be worn by the tutor.
Students should not share equipment and furniture should not be moved during sessions. For small group discussions, students can turn in their chair to face others but must maintain social distancing at all times.
Disinfectant wipes from the sanitisation station should be used to wipe down desks, chairs, and any shared equipment, such as keyboards. If possible, maintain fresh air flow during the session by keeping doors open.
Sessions are timetabled for 45 minutes to allow movement time and limit queuing entering and leaving the building (in addition to any building specific requirements). Upon entering the building, sanitise your hands at one of the sanitising points near the entrance, or visit the washroom and thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds. Sanitise your hands regularly during the day.
End of Session
At end of the teaching session, students will leave the classroom teaching space and are asked to sanitise hands as they exit. Students should maintain social distancing and to remind each other of protocol as necessary.
Students are reminded that through the Community Charter, signed on (re) enrolment, students promise to adhere to any instructions around COVID-19 Safety. Students who are exempt from wearing a face covering and/or visor in these circumstances should either confirm this to their tutor at the time using their exemption card or wear the appropriate lanyard which can be obtained from Student Support and indicates their exemption status. Students may wish to contact their tutor prior to the session. Exemption cards can be downloaded and completed via the Government website.
Study Spaces
We are encouraging students to only be on campus for teaching sessions. However, there are spaces available for studying on campus if students (e.g. commuter students) are unable to return home between teaching sessions.
 Union will be providing around 420 study spaces for students in the Engine Shed. It will be openfrom9amto7pm, Monday to Friday, although on ocassion it mayclose at5pm due to events taking place at the site.", 'Contact Tracing
Students are asked to make sure contact details held by the University are up to date. This will allow the University to contact them if a person they have been in close contact with during the teaching session develops symptoms.
Emergencies and First Aid
In an emergency, working within 2m is acceptable if you are comfortable with this. First aiders will be issued with full face protection PPE. Anything which is not immediately a dangerous situation is not an emergency and the usual 2m distance is required.
On hearing the fire alarm, immediately report to the designated assembly point and obey instructions from the Fire Marshall or Security Staff as necessary. On no account are people allowed to leave the assembly point without informing the Fire Marshall, or to re-enter the building until the Fire Co-ordinator has given clearance.
All building exit procedures should be followed in the event of an emergency. On hearing the first alarm all occupants MUST ignore COVID-19 one way systems and signs that have yellow backgrounds and black lettering, as well as red Do not enter signs that are fixed to fire escape routes and exits, and exit the building as quickly as possible, via the nearest exit.
These procedures and regulations are in place to protect us all.
Useful Contacts

Student Support
Tel:+44(0)1522 837080
Email:studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk
Student Accommodation Services
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886189
Email:accommodation@lincoln.ac.uk
Human Resources
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886775
Email:hr@lincoln.ac.uk

For the latest official Government guidance, please visit:www.gov.uk/coronavirus


Safety on Campus | Coronavirus | University of LincolnKeeping Everyone Safe on Campus
s roadmap, the University of Lincoln remains open to ensure students can continue their learning.Students can access key facilities, including the library, study spaces, support services, and some catering outlets. Steps have been taken to minimise the risk of Covid-19 transmission across campus, including one-way systems, enhanced cleaning regimes, and a requirement to wear face coverings in enclosed spaces. This overall advice and guidance fora safe campusis based on Government guidance and will be updated when required.", 'Social Distancing
While legal limits on social contact have lifted (as of roadmap step 4 on 19 July 2021), the Government is asking people to manage risks and limit the close contact they have with people they do not live with. The University continues to work to reduce the risks of transmission to protect students, staff, visitors and our wider community. This includes use of one-way systems and socially-distanced seating in many of our buildings to limit the number and duration of close contacts indoors.We have added clear markings in places on campus of high footfall and where queuing is likely, to help people to maintain an appropriate distance.
Access to Buildings
t become overcrowded. Some of our social learning spaces may have to be closed, or operate with restricted numbers. Hand sanitisers will be made available at access points and within buildings.", 'These arrangements may have to be changed as the campus becomes more active and we begin to understand how staff and students interact with each other. Of course, the Governments advice may also change, allowing us to relax some restrictions, or requiring us to tighten further.

Corridors, Staircases and Lifts
Where possible, one-way systems will be designed, creating a series of loops that people should follow when moving around buildings. If corridors are sufficiently wide (i.e. exceeding 2m in width), two lanes will be created, in which a one-way system should be observed (e.g. always keep left). In sections of corridors where queues are likely to form, such as outside kitchen areas and toilets, corridors will be marked at 2m intervals to help ensure social distancing is maintainedwhile queuing.
Wherever possible, lifts should be avoided at all times and used only by those unable to use stairs, or for the transport of large, heavy, or hazardous materials where transport on stairways would not be possible or safe. In most buildings, we have more than one stairway connecting floors and, in those circumstances, stairways will be designated as an up route or a down route to prevent face-to-face interaction, and to ensure distancing is maintained. Where only one stairwell to a floor is present a central marking will be placed, and a one-way system implemented (e.g. always keep left), or in some very limited circumstances, where there is clear line of sight down the stairway, a visual check to ensure the route is clear will operate  signage will clearly indicate those staircases.
University Library
The Library is operating with limited capacity to ensure social distancing can be maintained and to enable the Library staff to work safely as they restock shelves and deal with enquiries. As with other parts of campus, one-way systems and other Covid-secure measures have been introducedwith clear signage.Study spaces are open and available for students to use (with the exception of group study rooms).
You can still browse the shelves and take out books in person using the self-service machines or youcan reserve books for collection from the ground floor Freezone area.Library users who are clinically extremely vulnerable can arrange for books to be posted to them.Returned books are quarantined for 72 hours. A range of online services and activities are also available for students. More details can be found on the Library microsite.


Seminar and General Teaching Rooms
Seminar rooms will be operating at a substantially lower capacity than normal and will be arranged to ensure social distancing. The minimum distance between staff and students in seminar and general teaching rooms will be no less than 1.5m. We recognise that this is less than the ideal minimum of 2m but it remains greater than the World Health Organisations recommended minimum social distance of 1m and, in line with Government guidance, we have taken steps to further mitigate the risks.
We areensuring that all desks and chairs face the same direction (no face-to face layouts), shortening the length of sessions, providing wipes to enable staff and students to wipe surfaces before and after use, and ensuring that room ventilation operates effectively. Accordingly, the layout of rooms must not be changed, nor should additional desks, or chairs, be moved in or out of teaching rooms. If possible, doors and windows should be opened to maintain the circulation of air.
Labs and Workshops
In all laboratories and workshops, the maximum occupancy of the room should be set at no more than 25% of the normal maximum occupancy (for a lab with five bays, each with eight fume hoods, the total number of workers in the lab should not exceed ten). Work should be carried out in shifts, to allow the maximum number of workers to access a space, while maintaining a minimum number of persons working at any given time. Working space should be vacated upon completion of work, or where any significant period of delay is expected - for example, a three-hour experiment is running, and no other work can be completed during this time. During shorter periods of delay, the area should be vacated at the discretion of the worker, using common sense and consideration for other people who may require the use of the space.
In laboratory and workshop environments, floors should be marked at 2m intervals to help with the maintenance of social distancing. Where bay systems are in place, there should be no more than one person per half bay (maximum two people per full bay). Where there are multiple points of access to the laboratory or workshop, a one-way system should be implemented, with certain doors being designated for entry and others for exit (see illustraton, right). Where possible, wide footways in bay-system laboratories or workshops should be marked into two lanes to allow for movement in both directions, with people keeping to the left. Where this is not possible, a communication approach should be maintained between people in a workspace, so movement of one individual can occur in either direction while others remain within the bays and maintain the 2m minimum distancing. All workers in bay-system laboratories or workshops should work at least 2m from any primary footways, and work facing away from the central reservation of a bay where possible to minimise any face-to-face contact with others.


In open plan laboratories and workshops, floor markings at 2m intervals should be made (see illustration, right), and a one-way system implemented around the room with spurs as necessary to pieces of equipment that cannot reasonably be moved, provided a 2m distance can be maintained. Where multiple points of access and egress to the laboratory or workshop are present, one-way systems should be implemented, with certain doors being designated for entry only and others for exit only.
This guidance is in addition to standard Health and Safety guidance. A degree of common sense will be required when undertaking work in laboratories or workshops. For example, if a spillage of a toxic chemical in a lab resulted in the blockage of a designated exit route of a one-way system outlined in this guidance, people should not attempt to cross the spill to evacuate the area. The use of another, non-designated route would be permissible as the risk associated with the spill is likely to be higher than the brief reduction in social distancing needed to safely leave the room.
Catering Outlets
Wherever possible, campus catering outlets will be opened for a takeaway service but we will not be able to open all of the outlets, particularly those that are located in areas where socially distancing queuing would interfere with the safe operation of the building. Seating will also be limited given the need for adequate social distancing.
To support the safe operation of our catering outlets, we have made a number of changes. Hot drinks will only be served in disposable (and recyclable) cups, but there will be no additional disposable cup charge while this restriction remains in place.
All condiments will be in single use disposable sachets. All University outlets will be cash and contact-free, so payment will be via YoYo, or contactless card, and screens will be positioned to protect both staff and customers during face-to-face transactions. Menus will be simplified to improve the flow through the outlets, reduce queuing, and to make it easier to eat away from the usual restaurant facilities.
The Universitys mobile van and coffee carts will also be positioned in key outside spaces, where socially distanced queuing will be easier to manage. This will allow for the service of hot food and drinks. The University is also looking to provide additional outdoor catering facilities to support staff and students.
Service Desks
Within areas with service desks, appropriate queuing arrangements will be clearly laid out for customers. This will include where to queue from, tape (or similar) on the floor to keep 2m social distancing as they queue, and clear signage. Railing or tape will be required where longer queuesmayform.
We may need to regulate entry so that the premises do not become overcrowded. There will be additional signage when this is needed. To prevent customers coming too close to desks, teams should consider using a temporary barrier across the desk to better enforce social distancing. To ensure good practice, high contact surfaces such as service desks and communal computer equipment should be wiped down frequently. Frequency of cleaning should increase with increased usage, but a minimum of twice daily is suggested where possible. For those working behind the desks and therefore at higher risk given unavoidable face-to-face contact, the University will provide appropriate shielding.

Communal Kitchens
Many buildings on campus have small, communal kitchen areas for use by staff and students. To ensure social distancing measures are adhered to, communal kitchens should employ a one out, one in procedure, with no more than one person being in the area at any time.
In the case of much larger kitchens, floor markings at 2m intervals may be employed to allow for a well-spaced queue within the kitchen area. Where the maximum occupancy of a kitchen area has been reached, people should form a queue in the adjoining corridor, with the start of the queue being set 2m away from the entrance to the kitchen area to allow people to exit the area whilst maintaining a 2m distance from those queueing. Commonsense will be needed in these areas so that queues do not restrict access to other facilities.
Prior to the handling of communal items in the kitchen, such as kettles and cutlery, people must wash their hands for at least 20 seconds in accordance with government guidance to prevent contamination of surfaces. We strongly recommend that communal cutlery and mugs etc. should be avoided, and personal ones taken home to be washed, not left in communal areas. Where this is not possible, communalitems should be washed thoroughly using soap and warm water, dried using a paper towel or towel designated for this purpose (not a hand towel), and put away immediately to reduce the risk of transfer of contamination to other people.
Where possible consideration should also be given to staggering mealtimes to avoid crowding.
Sports Facilities
Sports Centre staff can advise on appropriate activities and they continue to provide online support for staff and students who wish to exercise and need help with their fitness regimes. As the gym reopens, it will be operating with a reduced capacity to enable social distancing. The University is also looking at the possibility of locating some gym equipment at other locations on campus to maximise access to sport and exercise opportunities. Limited toilet facilities will be available but changing facilities will initially be closed so users will need to shower and change in their own accommodation.
It is likely that the Sports Centre and Dance Studio will be needed for teaching throughout the first semester so access to those facilities is likely to be severely restricted. The Sports Centre staff will be focusing on supporting outdoor activity wherever possible, including providing support for socially distanced outdoor exercise and classes. In addition, they will continue to provide online sessions and personal training.

Toilets
Toilet facilities across campus range from single, lockable WCs to larger communal facilities. In all cases, please respect good hygiene, making a conscious effort to wash your hands effectively.
In the case of single, lockable facilities, please leave the facility in a respectable condition. If waiting to use such a facility, ensure you stand at least 2m from the door to allow the previous occupant the appropriate space to leave without breaking social distancing guidelines.For the majority of communal toilets on campus, social distancing will be difficult. Consequently, most communal toilets will change to a one out, one in system with no more than one person being in the room at any time, and where users are asked to use a knock and call system. Where this is in place, a notice will be displayed on the outside of the door. In addition, a sign on the inside of the door will remind people of good hand washing practice given this will be a higher risk area with contact on the doors by all users.
Face Coverings and Visors
To protect staff and other students, the University requires all students to wear a face covering during face-to-face taught sessions. Academic staff are required to wear either a visor or face covering, but should ensure their teaching is accessible. All staff and students must also wear a face covering in other enclosed communal spaces on University premises, or outdoors, where social distancing is not possible. This includes, for example, when queuing, entering, or leaving buildings and in the Library. Read ourPolicy on Face Coverings (PDF)
Face Covering Exemptions
If you are exempt from wearing a face covering and/or visor, please ensure you complete an exemption card and bring this with you to show the tutor. You may wish to email your tutor before the session if you are exempt. The University can provide a lanyard for you to carry an exemption card. You can find details on exemption cards and print them from the government website at gov.uk.
Additional Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
For some subjects you will be provided with additional PPE where the nature of the teaching activity requires closer contact and social distancing isnt possible  for example, some lab or practical sessions. This will be explained by your tutor and the PPE provided at the start of the session.
Useful Contacts

Student Support
Tel:+44(0)1522 837080
Email:studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk
Student Accommodation Services
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886189
Email:accommodation@lincoln.ac.uk
Human Resources
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886775
Email:hr@lincoln.ac.uk

For the latest official Government guidance, please visit:www.gov.uk/coronavirus


