Decolonising at Lincoln | About the University | University of LincolnDecolonising at Lincoln
Upholding Our One Community Values
As a university, we are committed to upholding and recognising the five principles of our One Community Values: equality, understanding, listening, kindness, acceptance. The institution-wide project of decolonisation at Lincoln flows from and embeds this commitment.
We hope that these pages help you to understand not only the basics of what decolonialisation means, but also helps you to find resources to ensure that we can start breaking down some of the myths around decolonising to enrich and add to our current systems of knowledge here at Lincoln.
Why Decolonise?
What are the benefits? What do we gain?
Decolonising our university means working together to reimagine our scholarship, interpersonal relations, teaching, learning, and professional practices by actively including previously marginalised knowledge and ways of knowing.

s working culture. You can also find out more about how our staff and students are getting involved, and what our library is doing to support the project.", 'Research Practice
At Lincoln, we are calling for the re-imagining of different ways of knowledge inquiry and production. To emphasise consulting, shared responsibility, and making research inquiry representative of different cultures, languages, identities, regions, and histories.
Research Practice
Curriculum
As a university recognise that we need to rethink, reframe, and reconstruct the current curriculum to make it better, and more inclusive. We need to expand our notions of knowledge, so it does not always elevate one voice, one experience, and one way of being in the world.
Our Curriculum
Academic Procedures and Infrastructural Process
The Lincoln Academy of Learning and Teaching (LALT) is championing the work of decolonisation through project work and staff development. From Higher Education Academy Recognition (HEA) and programme delivery, through to student engagement opportunities, decolonisation is an integral part of reimagining our support for teaching and learning.
Procedures and Process
People, Performance, and Culture (HR Practices and Procedures)
Decolonising at Lincoln aims to be an inclusive process, taking everyone along on a transformative journey. That means reviewing our processes and procedures outside of curriculum and pedagogy to include colleagues in professional services.
HR Practice
The Library
Decolonisation has become an important global debate in libraries and archives, and is stimulating librarians, archivists, and library users to question existing policy and practice, and see their collections in a new light.
Library Resources
External Community
The University supports the Reimagining Lincolnshire project which seeks to uncover hidden and neglected stories, to showcase those whose contributions to the county of Lincolnshire, country, and internationally have largely been forgotten. 
External Community
Contact Us
To find out more about the Decolonisation at Lincoln project and the work we are undertaking, please contact us at decolonisation@lincoln.ac.uk. 


Ahmad Buba | Decolonising at Lincoln | University of LincolnAhmad the Architect
Ahmad Buba, MArch Architecture 20132015
Ahmad Buba studied a Masters degree in Architecture between 2013 and 2015 at the University of Lincoln. After completing his studies, he worked in an architectural firm in Nottingham before returning to Nigeria to rebuild schools in his home city of Maiduguri which has been devastated by the armed group Boko Haram.
Ahmad the Architect
Ahmad said: The highlight of my career has been the opportunity given to me to build schools. The Northeast of Nigeria. where I grew up. has been ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency. Boko Haram translates to Western education is forbidden. The insurgents have destroyed over 1,400 schools and forced more than 3 million children out of school in the region.
Building schools is the most powerful tool for long-term resistance against Boko Haram. The schools are designed to accommodate the victims of the insurgency who are mostly orphans. The school is the only weapon that plays significant role in their lives. It helps them to overcome their trauma and it also helps them to have hopes about their future."
Ahmad continued: The former Governor of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima, gave me the platform to actualise my dreams when no one believed in me and my approach to architecture. He gave me the freedom to do whatever I think is good, which resulted in building schools and many other community development projects.
Discussing his time at the University of Lincoln, Ahmad said: The University of Lincoln gave me the opportunity to engage in advanced study in architectural design and research, this helped me to develop competence to become inter-culturally and internationally proficient. Most of my research and projects were on how to develop and improve communities. I am now happily putting them into practice.
My fondest memory of Lincoln is my first time seeing the School of Architecture building. Architects always have a building they fall in love with, mine for sure is this building at the University of Lincoln. I still feel connected to it now.
It was a big change being away from home to study in the UK. Fortunately, the UK is tolerant and multicultural country where you find people from almost every country on earth. I met a lot of interesting people and I learned about other part of the world.
When asked what advice he had for new students beginning their studies, Ahmad said: Despite what you may think, university is not just about hitting the books. They should consider all four dimensions of life as they strive to educate themselves  physical, spiritual, intellectual, and social. They should spend time each day developing each of these four dimensions.
You can watch Ahmad the Architect: Rebuilding Schools in Northeast Nigeria on YouTube.



Professional Services | Decolonising at Lincoln | University of LincolnPeople, Performance, and Culture
A Transformative Journey
Decolonising at Lincoln is oriented to be an inclusive process, taking everyone along on a transformative journey. That means reviewing our processes and procedures outside of curriculum and pedagogy to include colleagues in professional services. To ensure all voices are heard and respresented, we will be engaging with Professional Services colleagues, and the Students Union to develop discussion spaces to encourage engagement with the process.

Dr Simon Obendorf
Dr Simon Obendorf sits on the Decolonising at Lincoln Committee, he is also a Senior Lecturer in the School of Social and Political Sciences and the chair of the Schools Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Committee.

Support for Professional Services
The University will be organising Discussion Space dates and for professional services staff, which will be available to book through My View on the Staff Development tab. We will also be working to support inclusive policies and to provide a toolkit to support best practice in recruitment of staff.
Contact Us
To find out more about the Decolonisation at Lincoln project and the work we are undertaking, please contact us at decolonisation@lincoln.ac.uk. 


Research Practice | Decolonising at Lincoln | University of LincolnResearch Practice
Whose Knowledge Do You Deem as Valuable?
At Lincoln, we are calling for the re-imagining of different ways of knowledge inquiry and production. To emphasise consulting, shared responsibility and making research inquiry representative of different cultures, languages, identities, regions, and histories.
Contemporary theories and research processes are heavily reliant on Western (influenced) principles and philosophical lenses. Decolonising research emphasise that research theories, methods, and philosophies need to be deconstructed and re-imagined towards developing and promoting inclusive knowledge, cultural diversity, and alternative practices.
Collaboration enables the development of a partnership process with communities in the decision-making process, including designing, planning, conducting, monitoring, and evaluating the research process and outcomes. Informing is the first step to legitimate participation in the research. However, the process must provide a two-way flow of information that generates feedback.
Reflecting on Research Practice
Dr Paul Igwe sits on the Decolonising at Lincoln Committee, overseeing research practice. Paul is also the Lincoln International Business School College Lead for the project and a Senior Lecturer in Strategy and Enterprise. 

Contact Us
To find out more about the Decolonisation at Lincoln project and the work we are undertaking, please contact us at decolonisation@lincoln.ac.uk. 


Curriculum | Decolonising at Lincoln | University of LincolnCurriculum
Decolonising Your Curriculum and Pedagogy
As a university we recognise that we need to rethink, reframe, and reconstruct the current curriculum to make it better, and more inclusive. We need to expand our notions of knowledge, so it does not always elevate one voice, one experience, and one way of being in the world.
We recognise that a colonial curriculum is unrepresentative, inaccessible, and privileged in nature. It is unrepresentative because it selectively constructs teachings which exclude certain crucial narratives. It is inaccessible because it prevents many of its recipients from identifying with the narratives constructed. It is privileged, because it ensures the continued participation, comfort, and flourish of a select group of people, in both an academic and a wider societal context. These features in higher education are detrimental to minority groups, marginalising them in a diverse range of ways.
A decolonised approach seeks to refocus the camera, as it were, to allow for a full picture, a more realistic representation of the world that challenges and interrogates the Eurocentric world view.
Our Decolonising Leads
To aid our work in decolonising the curriculum at Lincoln, we have a team of academics taking a lead on specific briefs to provide support and guidance to staff and information to students. Please contact your the leadsfor more information.
re Doing", 'Our work to decolonise the curriculum is taking place in many forms across the University. Decolonising Curriculum and Pedagogy Workshops have been running for all academic staff to engage in. The workshops have been designed as a conversation to develop academic understanding and to share best practice and ideas.The themes of our Workshops are broad and collaborative:
Get in Touch
Dr Antonella Liuzzo ScorpoDr Syed Imran AhmedDr Simon ObendorfDr Paul Igwe
To find out more about the Decolonisation at Lincoln project and the work we are undertaking, please contact us at decolonisation@lincoln.ac.uk.


External Community | Decolonising at Lincoln | University of LincolnExternal Community
Reimagining Lincolnshire
Reimagining Lincolnshire Blog
Professor Heather Hughes
s history in a more inclusive way.", '
Marginalised and Forgotten Stories from Lincolnshire
The project has uncovered stories such as the 5,000 black colonial volunteers who served in the RAF in Lincolnshire in the Second World War, the Asian-origin refugees from Idi Amins Uganda who were housed in former RAF stations and cared for by local people, and the many suffragists from this region who fought to extend the civic rights of all British people. The project examines why are people like Mary Jane Lovell, Albert West, Richard Hill, Margaret Emily Bennett, Rebecca Hussey, and Salim Charles Wilson not better known.
In February 2021, Revd Adam Watson, a vicar in Lincolnshire, invited the Reimagining Lincolnshire project to St. Chads church in Dunholme to examine how artefacts and church furnishings might yield neglected stories of diversity. A guide to the church, thought to have been written some decades ago by the local historian Terence Leach, mentioned the following: The carved wooden Chancel Screen was a gift from Captain Leyland Stephenson in memory of his wife, a relative of the Wild family. It was erected in 1913. It was built by Bowmans of Stamford, the rood figures were carved by Mahomet Phillips, a Congolese sculptor.
The project participates in events such as Heritage Open Days, Black History Month, the Being Human Festival, and Womens History Month. In the coming months, we will be producing exhibitions, educational resources, and campus and city trails.
Decolonising Our Campus
Decolonising our Campus' tour during Welcome Week was organised by the School of Humanities and Heritage, inspired and supported by Reimaging Lincolnshire project. The tour attracted over 150 students in the School of Humanities and Heritage, who toured around campus to explore the complex and problematic history of the figures after whom some of the buildings have been named.", 'Contact Us
To find out more about the Decolonisation at Lincoln project and the work we are undertaking, please contact us at decolonisation@lincoln.ac.uk. 


Academic Procedures | Decolonising at Lincoln | University of LincolnAcademic Procedures and Infrastructural Process
What We Are Doing
The Lincoln Academy of Learning and Teaching (LALT) is championing the work of decolonisation through project work and staff development. From Higher Education Academy Recognition (HEA) and programme delivery through to student engagement opportunities, decolonisation is an integral part of reimagining our support for teaching and learning activities, including being part of the academic staff induction programme.
We have begun work looking into academic infrastructure such as module, programme, and school handbooks through to staff recognition and supporting pedagogic literature.
We will be incorporating decolonisation work into our Higher Education Academy recognition awards, having included decolonisation and active examples within the UK Professional Standards Framework (UKPSF) to reinforce our commitment. This will be continued as we move towards the framework.
Developing Academic Procedures
Dave Prichard is Assistant Director of the Lincoln Academy of Learning and Teaching and sits on the Decolonising at Lincoln project. His role is developing the Academic Procedures and Infrastructural Process across the University of Lincoln.

The University of Lincoln is committed to decolonising its quality processes and will be working with colleagues to develop resources and approaches to support the project. We have already established a working group of staff to facilitate this process, this will include validation and revalidation of modules and programmes as well as developing new modules and programmes along with school handbooks to drive positive curriculum change.
The Lincoln Academy of Learning and Teaching, College Directors of Education, and School Directors of Teaching and Learning will work to embed staff and student collaboration into existing opportunities with the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Scheme (UROS) and College Teaching Innovation Funding to support decolonisation work.
We are also sharing practice through University-wide events including the annual Programme Leader Symposium and Teaching and Learning Conference.
Inclusive Education Resource Hub
As part of Decolonising at Lincoln, Dr Hanya Pielchaty, Associate Professor and Director of Student Inclusion at the Eleanor Glanville Institute, has created an Inclusive Education Resource Hub. This wealth of information sits within the Lincoln Academy of Learning and Teaching.

Contact Us
To find out more about the Decolonisation at Lincoln project and the work we are undertaking, please contact us at decolonisation@lincoln.ac.uk. 


Library | Decolonising at Lincoln | University of LincolnThe Library
The library sector has been shaped by a Western, colonial perspective, and decolonisation is high on the agenda in many university libraries. The Libraries and Learning Skills department is integral to conversations around decolonising the curricula, research, and library policies and practice.
The University of Lincoln has developed action plans within schools and colleges and has a commitment from the Senior Management Team to make decolonising a serious and long-term project. As part of this plan, the library is central to both developing professional services understanding, and also engaging with the academics and the curriculum.
Library Toolkit
At Lincoln, Academic Subject Librarian, Oonagh Monaghan is liaising with academics and students to help develop the conversations around the curriculum and reading lists alongside work on revealing coloniality within the existing collections. The toolkit is a compilation of resources which can help with those conversations.
Decolonising Design Competition
A competition was launched by the library in collaboration with the Decolonising at Lincoln Steering Group and the Lincoln School of Design, with the aim of creating a recognisable image for the University of Lincoln project. This image could then be used to promote and highlight marginalised voices within the resources and also start conversations around more problematic areas within the collections. The image will be used on shelf-ends and bookmarks so that issues around coloniality can be more visible.
Winning design by Kes Whyte
The design has already been utilised in presentations by the library and by academics and has been translated into a vinyl sign in the dedicated zine collection area of the library.
Zines
Members of the public are welcome to visit the library to look at our zines. Zines have a long history of being used by marginalised and excluded people and communities due to their DIY and self-publishing format. The aim is to provide a medium that diversifies our collections further and challenges white-centred practices which impact our collections, users, and services. Find out more about zines and our collection on the Library website https://guides.library.lincoln.ac.uk/design/zines.
Contact Us
To find out more about the Decolonisation at Lincoln project and the work we are undertaking, please contact us at decolonisation@lincoln.ac.uk. 


