Doctoral Students | School of Education | University of LincolnSchool of Education Doctoral Students
Studying a doctoral programme has enabled me to examine education more fully from political, philosophical and cultural perspectives. I have been extremely well supported by tutors, their advice and guidance has enabled me to set and achieve goals. Tutor-led Skype forums, regular individual tutorials and written feedback, highly enjoyable and stimulating study schools, student participatory sessions for sharing research, and an emphasis by tutors on listening and responding to students needs are just some of the ways I have been supported.
Kathleen Taylor, Doctoral student
A significant focus for the School of Education is doctoral research, with between 70 and 80 students enrolled at any one time, undertaking research on a wide range of topics. All doctoral theses are available from the Library. Click here for a list of theses from the past ten years.

You can view a list of Doctoral Theses by former students on the School of Education Doctoral Theses page.

Connor Hotson
As a leader within secondary education with experience teaching FE, HE and 14-16 provisions, my career has enabled to teach and support many students who are currently in the care of the local authority. I am impassioned about championing and advocating the education of Children in Care (CIC), and proud to be researching within this field to bring about positive change. My PhD study focuses upon the support that CIC and care leavers receive from FE providers to prepare them for the transition to adulthood.
Zaaima Al Balushi
Exploring Omani Primary teachers perspectives and experiences of using real world connection in mathematics teaching practices.
This case study will investigate teachers views about the ways in which the curriculum is oriented to real-world connections and to study how these teachers use the real-world connections in their teaching practice.The study will be undertaken in three schools in Oman from different geographical area (City. Village, Island). Data collection will be collected using lesson observations and interviews with maths and science teachers who teach in cycle one schools (grade 1 to 4).
Anthony Kitchener
What is the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the education of student paramedics and their subsequent transition into registered practice?
As an educationalist who specialises in the development of paramedics, my research aims to look at the impact on newly qualified paramedics whose education has been shaped by the turbulence of the recent Covid-19 pandemic. It will use a case study-based approach following the lived experiences of a group of new paramedics, bringing together their perception of the impact as they start their careers in the emergency ambulance service, and as they transition from a novice beginner into becoming experienced clinicians.
Dennis Mulligan
To examine the use of collaborative lesson study in developing the inclusive classroom culture in primary mathematics.
I have been inspired by the merits of lesson study and how it deepens teachers mathematical understandings and develops a collaborative culture of trust and support among teachers. My research will focus on the use of lesson study to promote inclusion for all pupils in the context of primary mathematics.
Nicki Walsh
Diabetes CPD for Nurses working in UK General Practice: Value added Education?
By using a constructivist grounded theory approach my study will attempt to understand the experiences of Nurse working in U.K. General Practice settings of existing opportunities for diabetes CPD and whether they consider that these meet the needs of their current practice requirements.
Louise Tyson
Teaching Our Kids Terrorism: the incorporation of fundamental and extremist Islam into the Religious Education curriculum of England and Wales to increase religious literacy and decrease religious ignorance.
The composition of society has changed in recent years, predominantly white nations have fast become both multi-cultural and multi-ethnic. This diversity however, has in some cases resulted in societal tensions. To combat such difficulties, the government has implemented strategies to combat such tension; citing education as one of its methods. It is the premise of my research to consider how Religious Education (RE) can be used as a tool to ensure that religious literacy is prevalent across society, to ensure that events such as hate crime and discrimination do not occur as a result of religious ignorance. Recent research into RE has confirmed that the subject itself has not adapted to the current socio-political climate, and thus, the subject is in need of significant reform. Therefore, at this time there is scope to make suggestions for its aims, content and pedagogies. Thus I am interested in: how Islam is currently taught in RE; whether the teaching is meeting the governments aims; and, whether the inclusion of particular Islamic concepts into the curriculum or utilising alternative pedagogies within the classroom will be more effective in the teaching of Islam as a means to reduce societal tensions.
Mairead Holden
As a teacher educator, I am interested in how teachers can be supported to become agentic, that is, to act with competence,purpose, autonomy, and reflexivity to bring about positive change within their own practice.My research is focused on Lesson Study as a vehicle to enhance teacher agency and efficacy in science and mathematics amongst teachers who are involved in cross-border Shared Education partnerships between Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Attitudinal study of the maintenance of Heritage language Teaching and learning: the case of Tamazight language in Algeria.
This study looks at the viewpoints of Algerians, from both ethnic groups Arab and Amazigh, towards Tamazight language education. By using an ethnographic case study, my mixed method research will explore the attitudes of headteachers, teachers of Tamazight, pupils, and their parents towards the teaching of Tamazight language in two schools of Oran one of the most important cities in Algeria. The findings will aid to acknowledge language planners, policy makers and education sector managers in Algeria of how people perceive Tamazight language teaching and learning, therefore, more suitable and practical curricular reforms can be performed.
Educational Low Attainment: Looking beyond the label to ensure equity in education.
The focus of my masters dissertation was the gender attainment gap at GCSE in which I analysed the question: Is the difference between male and female achievement in the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) an issue that requires intervention? This research has led me to analyse the educational concept of low attainment at school. Who decides who is a low attainer and why do we use such labels to categorise students? What damage do we cause to students when we label them as such, and how can we combat this to make education more inclusive and equitable for all?
I am currently working as a teacher educator in mathematics and STEM in primary education. My research focuses on the implementation of mathematical modelling as a pedagogy to enable learners to use mathematics to understand the wider world and engage in complex problem-solving.A case study of five teachers is documented, highlighting their journey of engaging with mathematical modelling for the first time and implementing it in their classroom. Teacher competencies, including challenges and successes of implementing mathematical modelling in the classroom, are explored. The research also discusses the benefit of teachers engaging inrelevant literature in professional development. Action Research (Mc Niff, 2022) and the Teaching for Robust Understanding (TRU) Framework (Schoenfeld, 2015) are key aspects of the research and play a central role in teacher reflection.
Science Practical Work in Tertiary Education
I am interested in exploring the value of science practical work, in terms of effectiveness and affective value, in tertiary education focusing on Biology, Chemistry and Physics. The aim of this study is to shed light on current practical practices in the teaching of sciences so as to benefit undergraduate students and future scientists in utilising the best knowledge resources so as to further their knowledge in the field.
Examining cultural capital accumulation in Early Years Education using participatory methods: listening to childrens stories.
Using participatory methods to unearth the experiences and perspectives of young children as 'experts in their own lives
s inclusion in the latest (2019) revision of Ofsted's Education Inspection Framework.
Are opportunities for participation in physical activity being overlooked within Further Education by policy makers?
Following several years teaching within Further Education (FE) it has become increasingly apparent opportunity for learners to participate and engage within physical activity is inadequate. I am hoping through research to identify limitations of progress and support for physical activity participation within FE from Policy makers. Whilst the role of physical activity within education is well understood alongside benefits identified, this research aims to identify substantial need for physical activity offerings within FE and acknowledgement of the crucial impact this would have.
My research intends to explore the impact of active learning methods on international student engagement and progression. With a focus on Egyptian students studying at a UK university branch campus in Cairo, my research aims to identify the extent to which active learning is embedded as a teaching method for academics and students. I hope to identify any barriers preventing the use of active learning and the perception of benefits and drawbacks of active learning as opposed to more traditional teaching methods, for the international student experience.


RiCES | Research | University of LincolnWhat are we doing?
Our work explores the relationship between knowledge, education and social power. We have special interests in two areas: the relationship between social forces and educational thinking, practice and institutions; and the development of critical and co-operative forms of education for democratic societies. Our researchers examine these themes in studies of alternative, co-operative and popular education; critical pedagogy; curriculum; discourse; educational policy and policy affecting education; educational reform; knowledge and ideology; labour; the organisation and political economy of education; social movements; and technology.
Why is it important?
Education is a key site of cultural, economic and political power, with the capacity to reinforce social inequalities and injustices or to challenge and overcome them. It is both consequential in the lives of individuals and communities and a key site of domination and resistance in global political economy. Understanding the politics of education critically is thus vital for students, educators, communities and publics.
How are we different?
RiCES researchers are members of an international community of scholars, educators and activists working to advance understandings of the politics of education in society, and to transform educational thinking and practice in the interests of social justice. In addition to producing academic theory and research, we co-operate with educators, educational leaders and educational activists to design research-based approaches to strengthening praxis.

Academic Staff
DrJoss Winn
Senior Lecturer
Dr Helen Childerhouse
Mr Daniel Bishop
Senior Lecturer in Education
Principal Lecturer - Sport and Exercise Science
       
Associate Members
Ms. Laura Stratford
Dr. Janet Jones
Prof. Richard Hall
Graduate Student Members
Ms. Hadiza Abdulrahman
Ms. Kathleen Taylor
Research Projects:
'The Ethics and Politics of Possibility: Principles and Practices of Prefigurative Knowledge and Research'Funded by the Independent Social Research Foundation (2016)Dr. Sarah Amslerhttps://criticaleducation.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/2016/09/19/the-ethics-and-politics-of-possibility/
'Co-operative Leadership in Higher Education (201617)'Funded by the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education (201617)Prof. Mike Neary and Dr. Joss Winnhttps://coophe.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/
'Practices of Possibility in Neoliberal Social Systems'Funded by the Independent Social Research Foundation (201516)Dr. Sarah Amslerhttp://isrf.org/about/fellows-and-projects/sarah-amsler/
Beyond Public and Private: A Model for Co-operative Higher Education'Funded by the Independent Social Research Foundation (201516)Dr. Joss Winn and Prof. Mike Neary", '
2017
Amsler, Sarah (2017)Insane with courage: free university experiments and the struggle for higher education in historical and contemporary perspective.Learning and Teaching in the Social Sciences.
Amsler, Sarah and Facer, Keri (2017)Contesting anticipatory regimes in education: exploring alternative educational orientations to the future.Futures: The Journal of Policy, Planning and Future Studies, DOIhttps://doi.org/10.1016/j.futures.2017.01.001.
Amsler, Sarah and Hanrahan, Nancy (2017)Critique and possibility in cultural sociology.In: The Routledge Handbook of Cultural Sociology (Second edition). Routledge.
Amsler, Sarah and Motta, Sara C. (2017)The marketised university and the politics of motherhood. Gender and Education, DOI 10.1080/09540253.2017.1296116.
Amsler, Sarah (2017)What do we mean when we say 'democracy'? Learning towards a common future through popular higher education.In: Out of the ruins: the emergence of radical informal learning spaces. PM Press.
Amsler, Sarah (2017)Learning hope: an epistemology of possibility for advanced capitalist society.In: Social sciences for an other politics: women theorizing without parachutes. Palgrave.
Hall, Richard and Winn, Joss (2017)Mass intellectuality and democratic leadership in higher education. In: Mass intellectuality and democratic leadership in higher education. Bloomsbury, London.
Hall, Richard and Winn, Joss (2017)Mass intellectuality and democratic leadership in higher education.Bloomsbury Academic.
Neary, Mike and Winn, Joss (2017)There is an alternative: a report on an action research project to develop a framework for co-operative higher education.Learning and Teaching: The International Journal of Higher Education in the Social Sciences, 10 (1).
Mayes, Eve and Bakhshi, Shukria and Wasner, Victoria and Cook-Sather, Alison and Mohammad, Madina and Bishop, Daniel C. and Groundwater-Smith, Susan and Prior, Megan and Nelson, Emily and McGregor, Jane and Carson, Krista and Webb, Rebecca and Flashman, Lily and McLaughlin, Colleen and Cowley, Emily (2017)What can a conception of power do? Theories and images of power in student voice work. International Journal of Student Voice.
Winn, Joss (2017)Co-operation, learning and co-operative values.Journal of Education Policy, 32 (2). pp. 253-254.
2016
Amsler, Sarah and Shadymanova, Jarkyn (2016)Market-driven, state-managed diversification of higher education in post-Soviet Kyrgyzstan.Higher Education in Russia and Beyond, 2 (8). pp. 10-11.
Gregory, Karen and Winn, Joss (2016)Marx, Engels and the critique of academic labor.Workplace: A Journal for Academic Labor, 28.
Jones, Janet Rosemary (2016)Teaching undergraduate sociology: the effects of transformational teaching practices on student learning experiences in an English further education college.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Neary, Mike (2016)Teaching Excellence Framework: a critical response and an alternative future.Journal of Contemporary European Research, 12 (3). pp. 690-695.
Neary, Mike (2016)Value: critical pedagogy, participatory art and higher education - a new measure and meaning of the common(s).In: Against Value in the Arts and Education. Disruptions. Rowman and Littlefield, pp. 355-374.
Neary, Mike and Saunders, Gary (2016)Student as producer and the politics of abolition: making a new form of dissident institution?Critical Education, 7 (5).
Neary, Mike and Winn, Joss (2016)The University of Utopia.Post-16 Educator (84). pp. 13-15.
Neary, Mike and Winn, Joss (2016)Against academic identity.Higher Education Research and Development, 35 (2). pp. 409-412.
Simbrger, Elisabeth and Neary, Mike (2016)Taxi Professors: academic labour in Chile - a critical practical response to the politics of worker identity.Workplace: a journal for academic labour, 28, pp. 48-73.
Winn, Joss and Gregory, Karen (2016)Marx, Engels and the critique of academic labour [special issue of Workplace: A Journal for Academic Labour].University of British Columbia.
2015
Amsler, Sarah (2015)The education of radical democracy.Routledge Research in Education. Routledge.
Amsler, Sarah (2015)Education should not be run for profit.Reclaiming Schools.
Amsler, Sarah (2015)Co-operation and education: a review of Tom Woodin's 'Co-operation, learning and co-operation, learning and co-operative values'.Post-16 Educator, 78. pp. 15-17.
Davy, Zowie and Amsler, Sarah and Duncombe, Karen (2015)Facilitating LGBT medical, health and social care content in higher education teaching.Qualitative Research in Education, 4 (2). pp. 134-162.
Neary, Mike (2015)Educative power: the myth of dronic violence in a period of civil war.Culture Machine, 16. pp. 1-28.
Neary, Mike (2015)Debate: on the authority of the HE teacher.In: Enhancing learning and teaching in higher education: engaging with the dimensions of practice. Open University Press, Maidenhead, pp. 167-170.
Neary, Mike and Beetham, Helen (2015)The nature of academic space.In: Enhancing learning and teaching in higher education: engaging with the dimensions of practice. Open University Press, Maidenhead, pp. 83-103.
Neary, Mike and Winn, Joss (2015)Beyond public and private: a model for co-operative higher education.Krisis: Journal for Contemporary Philosophy.
Simbuerger, Elisabeth and Neary, Mike (2015)Free education! A 'live' report from the Chilean student movement, 2011-2014 - reform or revolution? [A political sociology for action].Journal for Critical Education Policy Studies, 13 (2). pp. 150-196.
Winn, Joss (2015)Academic labour and the capitalist university: a critique of higher education through the law of value.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Winn, Joss (2015)Open Education and the emancipation of academic labour.Learning, Media and Technology, 40 (3). pp. 385-404.
Winn, Joss (2015)Democratically controlled, co-operative higher education.openDemocracy.
Winn, Joss (2015)The co-operative university: Labour, property and pedagogy.Power and Education, 7 (1). pp. 39-55.

2017
Amsler, Sarah (2017)Educators on the edge: flight, resistance and the politics of possibility amongst teachers in managed neoliberal regimes.In: Education Research Seminar, 9 March 2017, University of Brighton.
Hall, Richard and Winn, Joss (2017)Social co-operatives and the democratisation of higher education.In: The Co-operative Education and Research Conference, 5-6 April 2017, Manchester, UK.
Neary, M. (2017)Students as co-producers: co-creating future learning. In: Learning Innovation for Tomorrow seminar, University of Gloucester, 9 June 2017.
Neary, M. (2017)Pedagogy of hate. In CASS School of Education and Communities seminar, University of East London, 12 June 2017.
Neary, M. (2017)Critical theory as a critique of labour, featuring academic work; or, how do revolutionary teachers teach?In: Marx and Philosophy Society, 24 June 2017.
Neary, Mike and Venezuela Fuentes, Katia and Winn, Joss (2017)Co-operative leadership and higher education: four case studies.In: The Co-operative Education and Research Conference, 5-6 April 2017, Manchester.
2016
Abdulrahman, H. K. (2016) Contested representations of Northern Nigerias Almajirai and Quranic Schooling, presented at Bodies of Text: Learning to be Muslim in West Africa, Birmingham, 30 June1 July 2016 and New Voices in the Study of Islam in Africa I: The Production and Contestation of Muslim Institutions in Contemporary Africa, African Studies Association 59th Annual Meeting/Washington, DC, 13 December 2016.
Amsler, Sarah and Balaban, Corina (2016)University futures.[Video]
Amsler, Sarah (2016)Pedagogies of pluriversality.In: Universities in the Knowledge Economy (UNIKE), 14-17 June 2013, Copenhagen Campus, Aarhus University, Denmark.
Amsler, Sarah (2016)Other learning is possible.In: 'The Idea of Higher Education' lecture series, 12 May 2016, Newcastle Literary and Philosophical Society.
Amsler, Sarah (2016)Educating radical democracy: theorising counter-capitalist possibility in neoliberal social systems.In: Sociology Seminar Series, 2 March 2016, University of Warwick.
Amsler, Sarah (2016)Pedagogies of autonomy, self-management and cooperation.In: Marx in the Key of Hope, 29 January 2016, University of Bath.
Bishop, Daniel and Miller, Kirsty and Keeley-Smith, Leanne and Muzangaza, Kudzai (2016)Student and academic co-chairs in Subject/Programme Committees - help or hindrance?In: RAISE - Researching, advancing and student engagement: Student engagement: Excellence in Student Engagement, 8th - 9th September 2016, Loughborough University.
Neary, Mike and Winn, Joss (2016)Beyond public and private: a framework for co-operative higher education.In: Co-operative Education Conference 2016, 21-22nd April 2016, Manchester.
2015
Amsler, Sarah (2015)Other learnings are possible: autonomous education, decolonization and radical democracy.In: Plymouth Institute of Education Research Seminar Series, 16 December 2015, University of Plymouth.
Amsler, Sarah (2015)Higher education for social justice.In: What is to be Done in the Age of Austerity and Autonomy?, 17 April 2015, University of Birmingham (Conference of Socialist Economists).
Amsler, Sarah (2015)'Either we do this or we die. There is no alternative': learning from struggles for autonomous higher education.In: Universities in the Knowledge Economy: Transforming Higher Education in the Asia-Pacific Rim and Europe, 1013 February 2015, University of Auckland, New Zealand.
Amsler, Sarah and Dinerstein, Ana Cecilia (2015)Learning and organising hope.In: Utopias, Futures and Temporalities: Critical Considerations for Social Change (AHRC Connected Communities and Care for the Future), 19-20 May 2015, Bristol Zoo.
Amsler, Sarah and Facer, Keri (2015)Neither colonising nor abandoning the future: democratic education in an age of anticipation.In: Anticipation (first international conference on), 5-7 November 2015, Trento, Italy.
Bishop, Daniel (2015)Conceptualising the Student-University relationship within a UK higher education institute.In: 5th Cambridge Student Voice Seminar, 22 - 24 June 2015, University of Cambridge.
Neary, Mike and Winn, Joss (2015)Beyond public and private: a model for co-operative higher education.In: College of Social Science Research Conference 2015, 2 July 2015, University of Lincoln.
Winn, Joss (2015)Communes, commonism and co-ops: rethinking the university as a hackerspace.In: British HCI Conference 2015, 13-17 July 2015, Lincoln, UK.
Winn, Joss (2015)A short history of hacking: values and principles for co-operative higher education.In: Student as Producer conference, 27 March 2015, Newcastle College.
Winn, Joss (2015)Labour, property and pedagogy: theory and practice for co-operative higher education.In: Universities in the Knowledge Economy: Perspectives from the Asia-Pacific and Europe, 10-13 Feb 2015, Auckland, New Zealand.



Lincolnshire Learning Lab | Research | University of LincolnBringing Research Into the Classroom
Lincolnshire Learning Lab is a group set up to help improve the learning of all children and the working environments for teachers within Lincolnshire. The purpose is to bring academic rigour and evidence-based research into the classroom by engaging the three key stakeholders  teachers, academics, and anyone involved or interested in the education system, such as parents and educational consultants.
The Lincolnshire Learning Lab is so called to enable research to be carried out in schools in a rigorous and innovative manner ensuring that time is spent productively on research that will benefit all staff, children, and families, while offering teachers the opportunity to work with academics to ensure that research is effective for all. The group was established by the School of Education at the University of Lincoln in February 2021 and will remain the founders and leads of the Lincolnshire Learning Lab.
The research group is keen to work and involve anyone interested incarrying out research in their schools or education settings. If you are a teacher from a primary, secondary, specialist provision, or alternative education, or an academic or professional involved in the education system, thenplease do get in touch.
The first Lincolnshire Learning Lab event, which will bring together educational professionals from across the county to discuss research, consultancy, and exciting collaborative opportunities, will take place on Friday 19 November, from 3pm to 5pm. You canregister here.
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Key Research Projects
ASCENTS 121
The ASCENTS 121 support for science programme trained STEM undergraduates to provide 23 weekly one-to-one academic mentoring sessions to Year 11 science pupils with the aim of improving GCSE science attainment. 
Assessment Companion for Thinking Skills (ACTS)
ACTS aimed to develop, trial, and disseminate a suite of diagnostic and formative assessment tools to be used by classroom teachers for the assessment of progress in pupils thinking. 
Research 2 Practice
Research-2-Practice is a Wellcome Trust funded research project that is working with, and is guided by, expert teachers to develop packages of evidence-informed science teaching materials for use with both primary and secondary school mentors and trainee teachers.
Research Activity
Group Members
A list of members of the Lincolnshire Learning Lab and School of Education.
Publications
Postgraduate Research
Discover more about the work taking place in our thriving postgraduate research community.
Find out More


Short Course | School of Education | University of LincolnSpecial Educational Needs and Disability

Mentoring and Coaching for Educational Professionals
s level module designed to provide participants with core knowledge, understanding, and skills in mentoring and coaching and their application within an educational context."]


School of Education | College of Arts Social Sciences and Humanities | University of LincolnSchool of Education
Welcome to the School of Education.
Welcome
The School of Education is a vibrant and intellectually stimulating environment, where staff who have developed national and international reputations are committed to advancing knowledge and its application in all fields of education.
Our selection of undergraduate courses is designed to help future educators to make a difference to the lives of children and young people, inspiring them to learn and developing their knowledge and skills to prepare them for their future. These courses are designed to provide the relevant experience to build the foundations for future study or enable students to work within the field of education.
We also deliver a suite postgraduate programmes which aim to give practising and aspiring educators the opportunity to learn, research, apply, and produce critical knowledge in the interdisciplinary field of Education, with the aim of enabling them to use this to inform and transform future educational practice, theory, policy, and institutions.
Dr Anita Backhouse
Head of School

Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate degrees available in the School of Education.
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Programmes
Discover our postgraduate taught and research programmes within the School of Education.
Postgraduate Courses
Research
Find out about the exciting research taking place in the School of Education.
Explore Research
School Staff
Find staff members within the School of Education.
View School Staff List
Short Course
Take a look at our short courses.
Explore Short Courses
Doctoral Students
Our School offers a range of doctoral programmes which are designed with your future career in mind.
Our Doctoral Students
Global Opportunities
The University of Lincoln has a growing number of agreements with universities and partner institutions from Europe and around the world, allowing our students to gain valuable experiences studying abroad.
Outreach for Schools and Colleges
As part of our outreach with schools, the School of Education provides a session on the digital skills students need for university study. Providing advice on higher device choices, app recommendations, and various other tips, this can be delivered live, virtually, or through a highlights video. 
School of Education Key Facts
Join our current students Megan, Chloe, Catrin, Milly, Emma, and Beth as they discuss key facts and what you need to know before starting your journey with the School of Education.



Research 2 Practice | Lincolnshire Learning Lab | University of LincolnDeveloping Evidence-informed Teaching Materials
Research-2-Practice is a Wellcome Trust funded research project that is a collaboration between the University of Lincoln, Roehampton University, York St John University, and Kyra Research School.
The project works with, and is guided by,expert teachers to develop packages of evidence-informed science teaching materials for use with both primary and secondary school mentors and trainee teachers. Instead of imposing change on classroom practitioners, it capitalises on the existing teacher training mentor/trainee professional relationship and adopts a tried and tested model of instructional coaching that will support trainee teachers in becoming evidence-informed science teachers.
The project is nearing completion (autumn 2021) and the resources will then be made freely available online.
Please get in touchif you are interested in receiving updates about the project.



Group Members | Lincolnshire Learning Lab | University of LincolnList of Members and Staff

Dr Rachael Sharpe (Founder)
Dr Rachael Sharpe is a Senior Lecturer in the School of Education at Lincoln and is one of the founders of the Lincolnshire Learning Lab. Rachael lectured on undergraduate programmes and worked as a researcher at the University of York and joined the School of Education at the University of Lincoln as a Senior Lecturer and programme leader for the PGCE (Secondary). In addition to being involved on the Masters programme she also works with primary and secondary schools across Lincolnshire. She has experience of teaching in secondary schools and primary schools and is a trained secondary physics teacher. Rachaels doctoral research focused on students attitudes to practical work and involved a mixed methodology. Rachaels other research interests relate to: assessment in science; drama in science; primary and secondary science; practical work in science in both primary and secondary; student and teacher attitudes; and paired mentoring and working with disadvantaged students. Rachael is interested in running evaluation projects and is interested in running randomised controlled trials.

Dr Anita Backhouse (Founder)
s ongoing research into how the initial teacher training experience can be enhanced. Anita's other research interests relate to assessment and feedback in Higher Education contexts as well as cognitive development in science and mathematics, both of which inform and strengthen the teaching and learning support provided to colleagues and students. Anita is the principal investigator for a 3-year Erasmus+ funded strategic partnership project working with six partners from the UK, Finland, and Latvia. The aim of the project is to develop a suite of tools to support in-service and pre-service teachers in their assessment of pupils' thinking skills in the classroom.", '
Professor Terence Karran (Founder)
sresearch interests are focused on academic freedom and was commissioned by the University and College Union to undertake a large scale survey of the perceptions of the protection for academic freedom among the unions 150,000 members.", '
Dr Nikolaos Fotou
Dr Nikolaos Fotou is a senior lecturer in the School of Education, responsible for the MA in education programme. Nikolaos has several years of experience as a secondary and high school physics, mathematics and chemistry teacher. He has also worked for the past 7 years as a physics and mathematics private tutor and supply teacher, teaching students from primary up to first-year undergraduates. During 2012-2014 he was involved, as a research assistant, in different phases of the Wellcome Trust funded CPD project for primary science specialists. He is particularly keen to foster a more evidence-based, as opposed to opinion-based, approach to educational initiatives and his research interests are in science, physics and mathematics education with a focus on analogical reasoning, self-generation of analogies, nature of students knowledge, teaching and learning in the context of interactive pedagogies, by the use of ICT and design and evaluation of educational interventions.

Dr Helen Childerhouse
As a Senior Lecturer in the School of Education, Dr Helen Childerhouse contributes to the undergraduate and post graduate programmes available to our students. After teaching in primary schools for over fifteen years, she moved into Higher Education and worked with the Open University, and at Sheffield Hallam University and Bishop Grosseteste University before joining the University of Lincoln. Helen has experience of supporting trainee teachers, both in schools and HE. Her PhD study focused on teachers perceptions of what it is like to support primary school children who are identified with social, emotional, and behavioural difficulties (SEBD/SEMH) in mainstream schools. The methodological focus in research is narrative inquiry and interpretivism. Helen continues to pursue here interests and research into what it is like for children and their teachers who face challenges in learning and teaching in schools.

Dr Elizabeth Bailey
Elizabeth Bailey is a lecturer in the School of Education, where she teaches on both undergraduate and masters programmes. From October 2022, Elizabeth will be programme leader for the new BSc Education and Digital Learning degree. She also runs the MA module and microcredential unit Language and Education, created fromherresearch experience in applied linguistics and practical experience as an EFL teacher. Within the School, Elizabeth is Digital Lead (responsible for overseeing the use of digital tools and software for teaching), Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Chair (responsible for examining practice from an equalities perspective and helping to make positive change in the School) and Quality Lead (responsible for ensuringthepolicies and practice are rigorous and fair). Before joining the University of Lincoln, Elizabeth was at the University of York where she completed a PhD in Education, looking at primary school teachers attitudes towards using childrens home languages in the classroom. Her research interest include language and linguistics in primary school; children who use English as an Additional Language (EAL); language attitudes; EDI and digital learning.

Dr Jennifer Johnston
s level teaching across the School. As a member of the Lincolnshire Learning Lab, she undertakes research in teacher and science education. In particular, Jennifer's research interests include science and mathematics integration, peer and co-operative learning, and teacher education. Jennifer holds a PhD in science education and is a qualified Science Teacher (BSc (Ed) Hons). Before joining the University of Lincoln, Jennifer worked as the Head of Education and Director of School Placement at St. Patricks College, Thurles, Ireland (Mary Immaculate College [MIC] Thurles Campus as it is now known).", '
Dr Carol Callinan
Carol Callinan is a Senior Lecturer in Education in College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities. Her background is in psychology and she has engaged with a range of research projects which have explored the application of psychological theory to learning experiences and processes. In her PhD work she developed a multimodal, task based approach to studying childrens ideas in science in order to explore how these change and develop during the course of specific activities and over time. The results drawn from this work revealed the importance of exploring a range of response types, and in particular gestures, in order to gain a holistic overview of childrens knowledge and its subsequent change particularly if children were not able to clearly or fully articulate what they know and can do. Carols other interests include exploring approaches to supporting individuals with special educational needs and she has recently completed studies exploring phonics teaching in Primary Schools.

Dr Maria Lopez Romero
Dr Maria Lopez Romero is a lecturer at the University of Lincoln School of Education, where she is Deputy Programme Leader for the BSc Education and Psychology programme, and coordinates five undergraduate modules, tutors undergraduate students, supervises Masters and PhD research, serves as International Contact, and co-manages the microcredentials programme. Having completed her undergraduate degree in Psychology at Universidad Anahuac in Mexico City, Dr Romero moved on to a MA of Counselling in Educational Settings, at Rowan University, New Jersey. She was then employed as a counsellor at LEAP Academy University Charter School in Camden, New Jersey, where she designed and implemented the state-mandated Anti-Bullying programme. Dr Romero returned to Mexico where she lectured at the departments of Education at Universidad Anahuac, and Psychology at Universidad del Valle de Mexico. She did her doctoral work at the University of York, where she researched the attitudes of Mexican bullying bystanders under the supervision of Professor Chris Kyriacou. Dr Romeros research interests revolve around prosocial and antisocial behaviour in educational settings, the role of gender and culture attitudes towards bullying and defending, and the perceptions that different stakeholders have of their role in school violence.

Alison Smith
Alison Smith is a lecturer in the School of Education, contributing to the undergraduate and post graduate programmes that are available to our students. After teaching and leading in primary education for seventeen years, predominantly in Early Years and Key Stage 1 education, Alison moved into Higher Education and joined the University of Lincoln as a lecturer. Alison has experience of supporting trainee teachers in schools. Her PhD study focuses on KS1 education, policy and child development, with a methodological approach that centres on providing practical knowledge, understanding, and guidance to support teachers and leaders in schools.



Undergraduate Courses | School of Education | University of Lincoln


Research | School of Education | University of LincolnThe Future of Education
The School of Education is an active community of academic, student, and practitioner researchers committed to educational studies that make a difference. Our interdisciplinary and collaborative work aims to inform the improvement of thinking, practice, and policy across many educational contexts from schools and universities, to informal learning spaces, and theoretical debates.
Our researchers use qualitative and quantitative methods with a range of disciplinary perspectives to explore important questions about teaching and learning, inclusion and inequality, organisational cultures and institutions, educational futures, and the impact of educational research.
Studentsmay be able to learn from our academic researchers and be part of exciting new research projects that aim to challenge and improve current educational thinking and practice. From projects on multi-modal, practical, and performative learning among children, to studies on safeguarding academic freedom in European and African universities.
A significant focus for the School of Education is doctoral research, with between 70 - 80 students enrolled at any one time, undertaking research on a wide range of topics. You can visit a list of past theses online.
Lincolnshire Learning Lab
Lincolnshire Learning Lab is a group that has been established to help improve the learning of all children and the working environments for teachers within Lincolnshire.
One of the main aims of the group is to bring academic rigour and evidence-based research into the classroom by engaging the three key stakeholders  teachers, academics, and anyone involved or interested in the education system, such as parents and educational consultants.

Find out More



Postgraduate Programmes | School of Education | University of Lincoln


ACTS | Lincolnshire Learning Lab | University of LincolnACTS for Professional Development
The Assessment Companion for Thinking Skills (ACTS) project is the culmination of a three-year Erasmus+ funded strategic partnership between schools and organisations in the UK, Finland, and Latvia.
The aim of the project was to develop, trial, and disseminate a suite of diagnostic and formative assessment tools to be used by classroom teachers for the assessment of progress in pupils thinking. This innovative approach has developed new learning tools, learning and teaching methodologies, and pedagogical approaches that support pupils thinking.The aim is that these resources will improve the education of pupils and the training of pre-service and in-service teachers.
The project arises from the expressed need of pre-service and in-service teachers involved in thinking skills projects in three countries, Latvia, Finland, and the UK, and the opportunity to collaborate from our different starting points and common intentions. Changes to national curricula that either incorporate or will incorporate thinking skills are taking place in each of the partner countries.
Prescriptive standards for teacher competency including helping pupils progress in their thinking cover both pre-service and in-service teachers in the UK, Latvia, and Finland. However, few guidelines are available as to how the teachers should go about integrating the teaching of thinking and how they should change their assessment practice to gauge their impact on progress in thinking.
Through this project, the following has been developed:
 A description of thinking skills competencies (what does good thinking look like and sound like?) An achievement indicator that signposts competency and progression in thinking skills Guidance for progression between competency signposts that support both the teacher and pupils in knowing how to make progress towards the next signpost Assessment tools that are generic enough to be applied across disciplines but with subject-specific guidelines and examples Guidelines for interpreting assessment results in terms of  How am I doing as a teacher? and, What do I need to change? as well as, How well are my pupils doing?
You can find out more about ACTS on theproject website.



School of Education Doctoral Theses | Research | University of LincolnDoctoral Theses
School of Education Doctoral Theses 2008-2023
All theses can be found by searching in the Library catalogue. PDFs may be available where indicated from the research repository.
Aldossari, Ashwaq Mohammed (2021) Academic Freedom in Saudi Arabia: a comparative analysis. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Alsalamah, Aljawharah (2021) An Evaluation of the Perceptions of In-Service Training Programmes Provided for Female Head Teachers of Girls Schools in Saudi Arabia. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Duignan, Brendan (2021) So I Can Speak Two Speaks: Identifying the Conditions Necessary for Primary Modern Foreign Languages to be Introduced in the Republic of Ireland. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Gray, John Anthony (2021) Becoming Older, Being Well An Empirical Study in a Village Community in the English East Midlands. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
McHugh, Rita (2021) A Mixed Methods Exploration of Factors Impacting the Psychosocial Well-Being of Irish Primary Principals. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Smyth, Kathleen Sarah (2021) Teaching Reading Comprehension for the Development of Literacy Skills in Children with Special Educational Needs (SEN) in Mainstream Schools: Pedagogy, Practices and Perceptions. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Butler, Paul (2020) Educational leadership in a neo-liberal era: How leadership coaching psychology impacts principal leadership and well-being. A mixed methods study. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Curran, Tracy (2020) A theory-driven evaluation of Lesson Study as a model of professional development to support Irish teachers to enact the new primary mathematics curriculum. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Mifsud, Ian (2020) Notions of Quality Education through an Educational Policythe Reflexive Case Study of a Collegial School Network in Malta. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Mutabbakani, Raghad (2020) Autism Spectrum Disorder (Inclusion of Children on the Spectrum). PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Nicholson, Nyree-Anne (2020) Supporting Children with Identified Speech, Language and Communication Needs at Two-Years-Old: Voices of Early Years Practitioners. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Sweeney, Joan (2020) The Policy of Inclusion and the Support of Primary School Children with Dyslexia: A Comparative Study of the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Valtonen, Pivi Hannele (2020) Can We Do Better? An International Comparison From Government Expectations to Teacher Perceptions of School Readiness and Curricula for Six-Year-Olds Within England and Finland. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Zammit, Sean (2020) Education for All: Deficit-Thinking vs. Inclusive and Culturally Responsive Schooling. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Alghofaily, Lama (2019) Investigating the Perceived Barriers to Womens Rise to Leadership in Higher Education in Saudi Arabia. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Flynn, Mark (2019) The Prospects and Possibilities of Broadening the use of the Irish language in an English-medium post-primary school: A Case Study. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.


ASCENTS121 | Lincolnshire Learning Lab | University of LincolnThe ASCENTS 121 Support for Science Programme
The ASCENTS 121 support for science programme  led by the University of Lincoln and supported by the University of Leeds, the University of Liverpool, UCLs Institute of Education, and the University of York  trained STEM undergraduates to provide 23 weekly one-to-one academic mentoring sessions to Year 11 science pupils with the aim of improving GCSE science attainment.
Mentees were all eligible for free school meals and predicted to achieve a level 3-5 in GCSE science. Sessions were delivered outside of school hours (before or after school) in classrooms or laboratories under the supervision of a teacher. The topic of each session was chosen by pupils.
This trial of ASCENTS 121 Support for Science was funded by the Education Endowment Foundation (EEF) and the Wellcome Trust as part of the joint Improving Science Education funding round.
Evidence suggests that one-to-one academic mentoring is an effective way to improve attainment and may also increase subject enjoyment and interest. The EEFs Teaching and Learning Toolkit estimates that one-to-one tuition can boost learning by +5 months additional progress for all pupils, and that it can be particularly beneficial for disadvantaged pupils and for those with low attainment.
While almost all the programme was delivered, the trial was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Specifically, it was not possible to complete the impact assessment as planned owing to the cancellation of GCSE exams in summer 2020. This meant the independent evaluation was unable to reliably estimate the impact of the programme. However, the implementation and process evaluation (IPE) was able to be completed. This reported several perceived benefits for mentees, mentors, and teachers.
For mentees these included a perceived increase in understanding, enjoyment, interest, and confidence in science, in addition to perceived enhanced social skills and maturity in interacting with adults.
Mentors perceived the main benefits to themselves to be an improved CV and feeling good about helping others. There was some evidence of increased interest amongst mentors in a teaching career or supporting disadvantaged young people. Mentees were generally highly engaged in the programme, and their engagement was supported by the one-to-one format and the onus on them to lead the session content. A good relationship between mentors and mentees, and a positive experience of mentoring, were seen to be important to achieving the intended outcomes of the programme.
In addition, teachers reported feeling that mentoring sessions improved teacher-pupil relationships, and that pupils developed confidence in seeking extra support from teachers.
While the evaluation was unable to ascertain the impact of ASCENTS on GCSE outcomes, it does demonstrate that the intervention was well-received by teachers, mentors, and mentees, and was implemented as intended.
Find out more about the ASCENTS 121 support programme on theEducation Endowment Foundation website.



Postgraduate Research | Lincolnshire Learning Lab | University of LincolnJoin Our Thriving Postgraduate Community
The School of Education welcomes applications from prospective students wishing to join our thriving postgraduate research community for our MA Education, MPhil/PhD Educational Research and Development, and PhD (Professional) Educationprogrammes.
Below is a list of some of the doctoral theses that have been completed by students in the School of Education.
Completed Doctoral Theses
2020
Pinn, Keith (2020)Transnational Higher Education Students Finding their Voice: The Experts and Ultimate Insiders.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2019
Alharbi, Mayada Abdulaziz A (2019)The challenges and the possibilities to the use of technology in the teaching and learning of English language as a casestudy.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Alotaibi, Ashwaq Faleh (2019)Benchmarking best practice - preparing primary school principals for staff management: female headteachers in Saudi Arabian girls schools.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Bishop, Daniel (2019)Conceptualising the Student-University relationship within a UK higher education university: A case study into the involvement of students in assuring and enhancing teaching and learning and the wider student experience.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Bufalino, Giambattista (2019)Distributed Leadership in Middle Management: a comparative study of the educational and private sectors.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Harris-Lock, Ann (2019)Cognitive Immobilisation in Dyslexic Higher Education Students: Exploring Possible Triggers, Links with Aspects of Memory and Fluctuating Emotional Status, Informing Effective Coping Strategies.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Johns, Anthony (2019)I REMEMBER WHEN : THE IMPACT OF TEACHERS STORYTELLING ON TEACHING and LEARNING IN HIGHER EDUCATION.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
McGinn, Janine (2019)Towards a model for creative climates in higher education organisations: A constructivist grounded theory case study of Irish academics experiences of creativity and innovation in curriculum development.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Norris, Stuart (2019)The effect of the Open Event on students attitudes towards science in school across the transfer from primary to secondary education.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Zainuddin,Suhaiza (2019) An investigation into the effectiveness of practical work in achieving curriculum objectives in engineering studies for secondary education. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2018
Early, Patrick Henry (2018)Moderating Performance Assessment: Computer or Connoisseur? Comparing Objective and Subjective Measurements of Violin Proficiency.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Farrell, Elizabeth (2018)An investigation into the implementation and impact of literacy initiatives on disadvantaged primary schools in urban Ireland.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
McGowan, Jean (2018)Learn Where We Teach: A journey to critical intersubjective awareness via self study and action research with primary school teachers.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Muscat, Matthew (2018)The essential nature of on-the-job thinking: A phenomenological study of health and fitness professionals engaged in learning experiences.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Coffey, Thomas Patrick (2018)An investigation into the teaching of numeracy in subjects other than Mathematics across the curriculum: a case study of a post-primary disadvantaged school in Ireland.PhD Professional thesis, University of Lincoln.
Kehoe, Elizabeth (Betty) (2018)An investigation into the perceptions, experiences and abilities of young students in mathematics word problem solving.PhD Professional thesis, University of Lincoln.
Connor, Mary (2018)How does early life adversity impact on social interaction and school engagement in middle childhood in Ireland?PhD Professional thesis, University of Lincoln.", "Macken, Aisling (2018)A state of abject terror: Corporal punishment and the emotional dimensions of teaching and learning in 1950's Irish primary schools.PhD Professional thesis, University of Lincoln.", 'Abdulrahman, Hadiza (2018)The men they become  Northern Nigerias former almajirai: A postcolonial critique of discourses and representations of knowledge, education and identity. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2017
Adu Gyamfi, Stephen (2017)Information and Communication Technology Acceptance in Education: A Study of Pre-service Teachers in Ghana.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Backhouse, Anita (2017)The PGCE (primary) experience: a mixed-methods case study. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Alghamdi, Abdullah (2017)The potential of adopting smart mobile tools for learning and teaching activities in Saudi Universities. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Alhammad, Mohammed(2017)The issues of implementing inclusion for students with Learning Difficulties in mainstream primary schools in Saudi Arabia.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Alabri, Waleed(2017)The Inclusion of children with Downs syndrome in mainstream primary schools in Saudi Arabia: understanding the perspective of school principals. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Alzaidi, Faten Abdulhadi(2017)An exploratory study on educating learners with ASD in primary inclusive setting in Saudi Arabia: issues, attitudes, and challenges. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Hernon-Jarvis, Jane(2017)The role of emotions in initial teacher training in English further education.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Indans, Claire (2017)Marketisation, values and behaviours: An investigation of how marketisation in post-sixteen vocational further education institutions within government funded private and state market environments impacts on the quality and ethics of hairdressing training in England.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2016
Zhao, Zhenhong (2016)Confucianism in the classroom: interactive EFL teaching and learning in a Chinese university.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Almarwani, Manal Ahmad(2016)E3-Electronic Education for English: developing mobile learning and teaching in Saudi Arabia. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
 acceptance of e-learning technologies in teaching in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.", 'Simpson, Diane (2016)Being and becoming a social work academic: negotiating transitions and identities.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Bubbers, Fiona (2016)The Bologna Process in Germany: reform Kairos or Chimera.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Mulligan, Maria McMahon(2016)Giving teachers a voice within the teacher effectiveness paradigm: a mixed methods study focusing on teachers perceptions of the impact of their classroom practices on student outcomes in mathematics.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Jones, Janet Rosemary(2016)Teaching undergraduate sociology: the effects of transformational teaching practices on student learning experiences in an English further education college.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Penney, Esther (2016)Mirrors of educational potential: can learning styles predict academic achievement on short-courses for food industry students?EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2015
Vella, Kenneth (2015)Middle leadership progression in Maltese catholic schools a case study in enclosed succession.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
AL-Kahtani, Mohammed Ali (2015)The Individual Education Plan (IEP) Process for Students with Intellectual Disabilities in Saudi Arabia: Challenges and Solutions.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Tian, Zezhong (2015)A case study of the internationalisation of Higher Education in China: meaning, implementation and evaluation.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
McCarthy, Ann Marie(2015)A leader developing leadership: a case study. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Mousley, Perdita(2015)Dangerous and severe personality disordered patients' engagement in education: extent, rationale and developmental impacts.EdD thesis, Lincoln University.
Munday, Keith (2015)Workplace bullying and survivorship in the teaching profession.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Lindley-Baker, Julia (2015)Leaders of special education state schools facing pressures, finding solutions?EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Caulfield, Ann(2015)The contribution of the practice of mindfulness to stress reduction among school teachers: a qualitative study of Irish primary teachers. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Healy, Anita (2015)Teacher-principles of primary schools in rural Ireland: retirement motivations, preparations and experiences.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Gavin, Adrian(2015)The perceptions of sub-clinically anxious children, their parents and teachers, of a targeted intervention based on the FRIENDS for Life programme.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Murphy, Kathleen(2015)Preceptors in nursing education: striking a balance between nursing student learning and client care.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2014
Walker, Janet (2014)Social work practice education in Russia Exploring curriculum change.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Zarb, Nicholas J (2014)Aligning governmental and organizational missions building a model of FE organizations in Malta.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Fhailghigh, Mire Nic An (2014)Beginning principalship exploring the perspectives of newly appointed principals in rural Ireland.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Tynan, Fionnuala(2014)Experiencing educational inclusion: children with Williams syndrome in Ireland.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Thurlby-Campbell, Ian (2014)The function of personal agency in determining education, employment and training outcomes. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Pace, Claire Felice (2014)Pursuing academic post-secondary education a study of retention and withdrawal factors at the junior college in Malta.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
 perceptions of being observed teaching a single institution case-study.PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.", 'Alothman, Abdulaziz(2014)Inclusive education for deaf students in Saudi Arabia: perceptions of schools principals, teachers and parents. PhD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2013
Grant, Amanda(2013)Inducting newly qualified Primary Level Teachers in the Republic of Ireland: rhetoric and reality.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Thornton, Maura (2013)States of mind roles of primary school teaching of traditional Irish music in creating Irish identity.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Grant, Derrick(2013)Becoming a primary school principal in Ireland: deputy-principalship as preparation. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Walsh, Frank (2013)Extra-mural and ultra vires? Professional duties of Irish post primary school principals an empirical analysis.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln
Turnbull, Margaret(2013)Education policy and social justice: the experience of South African school principals. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Lyng, Anthony(2013)Leadership Practice: an investigation of the perceptions of secondary school headteachers in South East England. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2012
 perspectives.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.", 'Warr, Christine (2012)From industrial expert to vocational tutor stories of transition.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Joyce, Maria(2012)Towards an understanding of career progression for female professors of nursing: a small scale study.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Ware, Nicholas (2012)A case study investigation into how the role of middle managers has changed in secondary schools in England.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Scanlon-Feeley, na M (2012)Understanding the influence of previous achievement, student choice and attitude on achievement levels in mathematics in Ireland.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
 professional learning: a case study of collaborative professional development. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.", '2011
s specialist status as a sports college used to affect inclusion perceptions of school staff.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.", 'Morgan, Wye (2011)Inside a learning community a structure for supporting collaborative partnerships.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Chimbetete, Beauty (2011)An investigation into the roots of African primary school headship in Zimbabwe.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2010
Beckton, Julian(2010)Modelling university educational development units. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
s schooling exploring perceptions and experiences of participation.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.", '2009
McEwing, Wendy (2009)Investigating the conceptualisation and management of plagarism a higher education case study.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Crawford, Karin(2009)Continuing professional development in higher education: voices from below.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Dixon, David(2009)Developing a green leader model for primary schools. EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Rosen-Webb, Sarah (2009)SENCO Identity and Roles Nobody tells you how to be a SENCO.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
2008
Roberts, Lesley(2008)The challenges facing leaders and managers in the independent special school sector: a changing agenda.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.
Wilde, D. N. M (2008)Challenges and Rewards Expectations and realities experienced by school business managers in transition from the primary to the secondary sector.EdD thesis, University of Lincoln.



Study | University of LincolnIn this section
The School of Education has a diverse post-graduate community of students and staff from around the world. You will join over 100 other students who are engaged in the advanced study of education together with committed and respected academics who draw from their own research and that of others in the practice of their teaching and supervision. The School of Education is within the College of Social Science and part of a larger academic community specialising in social and political sciences, business and law, psychology, sports, health and social care. A range of resources is therefore available to you, including an extensive library collection of books, ebooks and electronic journals in the social sciences and a number of discipline-specific seminar series which run throughout the year.
Our students range from recent graduates who wish to pursue an academic career in education, practising teachers who are looking to deepen their knowledge of a specific area of their profession, aspiring leaders in educational management, and retired educators who bring decades of experience to their chosen area of interest. Together with staff, all students are encouraged to share their knowledge and experience through a programme of seminars, talks and study.
Our programmes of study have been carefully designed around the other commitments of our students who are often working or based some distance from the city of Lincoln. All of our students are welcome to attend the Study Schools and contribute to our annual student conference. PhD students negotiate a personal timetable of study and tutorials with their individual supervisors. We therefore welcome students who wish to study both full-time or part-time in Lincoln or based elsewhere.


STEG | Research | University of LincolnWhat are we doing?
We are undertaking research in science and technology education in order to make a positive, measurable, impact upon teaching and learning in those areas. Some of our current research involves: looking at the provision and effectiveness of psycho-educational interventions involving technology to help support carers of people with dementia; the impact of open days and open evenings on Key Stage 2 students; cultural differences in the prevalence of misconceptions in science.
Why is it important?
Science and technology play a significant role in many aspects of contemporary life and the ability to make the teaching and learning of science and technology more effective has the potential to impact positively both on individual lives and the country as a whole.
How are we different?
We share the view that educational practice in all areas of science and technology education needs to be informed by objective, research based, evidence rather than the views and personal opinions of those working in those areas.
Academic Staff
Head of School of Education
Prof.Terence Karran
Professor in Higher Education
Prof.Ian Scowen
Head of Chemistry
Dr. Rachael Sharpe
Senior Lecturer, School of Education
Prof.Andrei Zvelindovsky
Head of School of Mathematics & Physics
Dr. Nikolaos Fotou
School of Education, University of Maynooth
Dr. Jennifer Johnston
Senior Lecturer, School of Education
Research Staff
MissDespina Laparidou

Associate Members

Mayada Alharbi
Betty Kehoe
Holly Meneer
Suhaiza Zainuddin
Godwin Osakwe
Chris Otter
Stuart Norris
Publications
Abrahams, I., Constantinou, M., Fotou, N., & Potterton, B. (2017).The relevance of science in a black box technological world.School Science Review,98 (365), 63-67.

Walshe, G., Johnston, J., & McClelland, G. (2017). Integrating mathematics into science: Design, development and evaluation of a curriculum model. In K. Hahl, K. Juuti, J. Lampiselk, J. Lavonen & A. Uitto, (Eds.),Cognitive and affective aspects in science education research, selected papers from ESERA conference 2015, Springer, NL.

Abrahams, I. (2016). Minds-on practical work for effective science learning. In K. Taber & B. Akpan,Science Education: An International Course Companion(pp. 403-416). London: Sense.

Abrahams, I., & Reiss, M. (Eds) (2016).Enhancing learning with effective practical science 11-16. London: Bloomsbury.

Abrahams, I., Reiss, M.J., & Sharpe, R. (2016). To DAPS or to IAPS: That is the question. In I. Eilks, S. Markic & B. Ralle (Eds),Science Education Research and Practical Work(pp. 119-130). Germany: Shaker Verlag.

Fotou, N., & Abrahams, I. (2016). Students analogical reasoning in novel situations: Theory-like misconceptions or p-prims?Physics Education, 51 (4), 1-6.

Johnston, J., Walshe, G. and N Rordin, M. (2016). Utilising different models of integration to enhance the teaching and learning of second level science and mathematics.New Perspectives in Science Education(5th Ed). pp. 72-77. ISSN 2420-97321.

N Rordin, M., Johnston, J., & Walshe, G. (2016). Making mathematics and science integration happen: Key aspects of practice.International Journal of Mathematical Education in Science and Technology. [Online]. 1-23, [Accessed 27 Oct 2015]. Available from: doi: 10.1080/0020739X.2015.1078001.

Park, J., Abrahams, I., & Song, J. (2016). Unintended knowledge learnt in primary science practical lessons.International Journal of Science Education,38 (16), 2528-2549.

Park, J., Song, J., & Abrahams, I. (2016). Unintended learning in primary school practical science lessons from Polanyis perspective of intellectual passion.Science & Education, 25 (1), 3-20

Abrahams, I., Homer, M., Sharpe, R., & Zhou, M. (2015). A comparative cross-cultural study of the prevalence and nature of misconceptions in physics amongst English and Chinese undergraduate students.Research in Science & Technological Education,33 (1), 111-130.

Callinan, C. (2015). Talking about electricity: the importance of hearing gestures as well as words, In C. P. Constantinou, N. Papadouris & A. Hadjigeorgiou (Eds.),Insights from Research in Science Teaching and Learning: Selected papers from the ESERA 2013 conference. Springer: New York. ISBN: 978-3-319-20073-6

 reasoning in making predictions about novel situations: The role of self generated analogies. In N. Papadouris, A.", '
Hadzigeorgiou & C. P. Constantionou,Book of Selective Papers from the ESERA 2013 Conference, Dordrecht: Springer.

Fotou, N., & Abrahams, I. (2015). Doing with ideas: The role of talk in effective practical work in science.School Science Review, 96 (359), 55-60.

Abrahams, I., & Reiss, M.J. (2015). The assessment of practical skills.School Science Review, 96 (357), 40-44.

Sharpe, R. (2015) Students attitudes to practical work by age and subject.School Science Review, 96 (357), 25-30

Abrahams, I. (2014). Teaching in laboratories. In R. Gunstone (Ed.)Encyclopedia of science education. Springer Science + Business Media Dordrecht.

Abrahams, I., Reiss, M.J., & Sharpe, R. (2014). The impact of the Getting Practical: Improving Practical Work in Science continuing professional development programme on teachers ideas and practice in science practical work.Research in Science & Technological Education32 (3), 263-280.

Callinan, C., & Sharp, J. (2014). Understanding childrens ideas from a multimodal perspective. In J. Johnston (Ed.)Emergent Science: Teaching science from birth to 8.Routledge: Oxon.

,Journal on School Educational Technology, 9(4), 14-26.", '
Abrahams, I., Reiss, M., & Sharpe, R. (2013). The assessment of practical work in school science.Studies in Science Education,49(2), 209-251.



Publications | Lincolnshire Learning Lab | University of LincolnSelected Publications
Below is a list of recent publications produced by academics working in the School of Education.
Backhouse, Anita (2020)Stepping on the teachers toes: Student teachers experience of a one-year postgraduate teacher training programme. European Journal of Teacher Education. ISSN 0261-9768.
Bailey, ElizabethandMarsden, Emma(2017) Teachers views on recognising and using home languages in predominantly monolingual primary schools.Language and Education, 31 (4). pp. 283-306.ISSN 1747-7581.
Coffey, PandSharpe, Rachael(2021) An investigation into the teaching of numeracy in subjects other than Mathematics across the curriculum.International Journal of Mathematical Education in Science and Technology (TMES) .ISSN 0020-739X.
Constantinou, Marina and Fotou, Nikolaos (2020)The Effectiveness of a Must-Have Practical Work in Tertiary Life Science Education. Information, 11 (9). pp. 401-414. ISSN 2078-2489.
Fotou, N., and Abrahams, I. (2021) From the known to the unknown: the role of spontaneous and self-generated analogies in students predictions about novel situations.Research in Science & Technological Education, 1-15.
Fotou, Nikolaos and Abrahams, Ian (2020) Extending the Role of Analogies in the Teaching of Physics. The Physics Teacher, 58 (32). pp. 32-35. ISSN 0031-921X.
Fotou, Nikolaos and Constantinou, Marina (2020)The pandemics precipitate: Reconsidering biology and health literacy.School Science Review, 102 (378). pp. 13-15. ISSN 0036-6811.
Fotou, Nikolaos and Constantinou, Marina (2020)The role of health and biology literacy in the era of the COVID-19 pandemic.ASE International, 11 . pp. 29-33. ISSN 2515-110X.
Johnston, Jennifer and Purcell, Rebecca (2020) Who else is teaching the teachers? The subject discipline teacher educator in initial teacher education. European Journal of Teacher Education. ISSN 1465-3435.
Johnston, Jennifer, Walshe, Grinne and N Rordin, Mire (2019) Supporting Key Aspects of Practice in Making Mathematics Explicit in Science Lessons. International Journal of Science and Mathematics Education . ISSN 1571-0068.
Sharpe, Rachael and Abrahams, Ian (2019) Secondary school students attitudes to practical work in biology, chemistry and physics in England. Research in Science & Technological Education. ISSN 0263-5143.
Sharpe, Rachael, Abrahams, Ian and Fotou, Nikolaos (2018) Does paired mentoring work? A study of the effectiveness and affective value of academically asymmetrical peer mentoring in supporting disadvantaged students in school science. Research in Science & Technological Education, 36 (2). pp. 205-222. ISSN 0263-5143.
Summers, Jessica,Hodgson, JessicaandSharpe, Rachael(2021)A narrative review of the late effects of paediatric cancer treatment within an educational setting: existing evidence and where do we go from here?Chronic Illness.ISSN 1742-3953.
Walshe, Grinne, Johnston, Jennifer and Goos, Merrilyn (2020)PROMOTING 21ST CENTURY SKILLS THROUGH STEM INTEGRATION: A COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF NATIONAL CURRICULA.Science and mathematics education for 21st century citizens: challenges and ways forward. Nova publishers. ISBN 978-1-53618-334-4.



School Staff | School of Education | University of LincolnSchool of Education Staff
School of Education Staff


