Sustainable Energy and Power | Research | University of LincolnSustainable Energy and Power Research Group(SEP)
The SEP research group, led by Prof Chris Bingham, is comprised of two sub-groups:
The SEP research group leads systems thinking and applied research to develop new energy delivery approaches for heat and electricity. As society is rapidly moving into a Whole Systems Place-Based understanding using combined demand profiles, our group leads in the Distributed Generation and Local Area Energy Management approach being developed in the UK and internationally. This reduces net requirements, introducing new technologies around hydrogen and storage into the medium scale solutions (MESO) for societys needs, allowing effective engagement by users and suppliers for truly sustainable solutions. Our experience in technologies and AI is key to delivering the change needed now.
 highly integrated activities promote a strong multidisciplinary research culture that enhances the reach and significance of its outcomes, both nationally and internationally. Partners and stakeholders span the automotive, aerospace, industrial, health, communications, defence, power, agritech and food and drink sector, and other commercial sectors.", 'Internally, we actively collaborate with researchers in the School of Computer Science, School of Life Sciences, School of Mathematics and Physics, School of Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT), and the National Centre for Food Manufacturing.
Please visit our sub-groups for more details.
Politecnico di Torino, Turin, Italy
Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium
Arescomo S.P.A, Aprilia, Italy
Universite Bretagne Sud, Brittany, France
Alma Mater Studiorum - Universita Di Bologna, Italy
Southern Federal University, Rostov on Don, Russia
Logistic Network Consultants GmbH, Hannover, Germany
Universidade Da Beira Interior, Covilha, Portugal
Universita Degli Studi Di Modena E Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy
Nimbus SRL, Lombardore, Italy
School of Electrical Engineering, Chongqing University, China
Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
State Grid Jibei Electric Power Co. Ltd. Research Institute, North China Electric Power Research Institute Co. Ltd., Beijing, China
Department of Physics, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria
INIFTA, CONICET, Universidad Nacional de la Plata, La Plata, Argentina
Institute of High Voltage and High Current, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia
University of Melbourne, Australia
Seoul National University, Republic of Korea
Ssangyong Motor Company, Republic of Korea
Korea Institute of Industrial Technology (KITECH), Republic of Korea
Feng Technologies SAS, Laval, France
EDL SA, Montevideo, Uruguay
Siemens Energy, UK 
School of Engineering, University of Leicester, UK
School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton, UK
General Electric, Grid Solutions, Research & Technology, Stafford, UK
Brunel University London, UK
Ultra Ele ctronics Controls, Cambridge, UK
Triumph Controls Group, Chester, UK
Diamond Light Source, UK
IMS Evolve, Milton Keynes, UK
Grimsby Institutes Food Refrigeration and Process Engineering Research Centre, Grimsby, UK
RU Robots Ltd, UK
Proseal UK Ltd, UK
Bakkavor UK Ltd
Marks & Spencer plc., UK
Teledyne e2v Technologies Ltd, UK
Littleport Mushroom Farms LLP, G's FRESH, UK
METIS Aerospace, Lincoln, UK
Merlin Polyurethanes, Spalding, UK
Engys Ltd, Richmond, UK
The University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK
Hybrid Air Vehicles, Cardington, UK
Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence Research Group
School of Engineering Social Media
Contact Us
School of Engineering, College of Health and Science,University of Lincoln, Isaac Newton Building,Brayford Pool, University of, Lincoln LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


School of Engineering | College of Health and Science | University of LincolnCreate results you truly desire, learn to explore new patterns of thinking, and experience how to set free collective aspirations.
Access a range of pre-prepared resources or find out about bespoke bookable opportunities to support your studentsas they consider their post-16 options.
Keep up to date with news from the University of Lincoln including inspiring stories featuring leading research, campus events, student success stories,and more.
Welcome to the School of Engineering
The University of Lincoln established the first new Engineering school in the UK for more than 20 years at its beautiful city-centre Brayford Campus in 2009. It has enabled a ground-breaking initiative in collaborating with Siemens Energy and other employers in the engineering sector,with the aim of developing innovative engineering degreeprogrammes andhigh-impact transformative research for the 21st century.
The School of Engineering offers undergraduate degree programmes in Biomedical Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Mechatronics and General Engineering. Its internationally recognised academic staff and strong industry links provide the foundations for a dynamic and high-quality engineering education. The School seeks to transform engineering education to create value and develop breakthrough technologies, products, systems, and services regionally and across the world. Accordingly, its degree programmes are modern and innovative in order to equip our graduates and the workforce of tomorrow with the knowledge, skills, and competencies needed to pursue their ambitions and have successful and sustained careers in engineering. 
Hear from our students
Learn more about what our current students love about studying atLincoln's School of Computer Science.Hear their first hand experiences of student life at Lincoln and find out what makes it a great place to learn.

"Project engineering / project design, is the way the world is structured right now, and you have to know how it works in order to get into this world."
Dominic, Mechatronics Engineering
s School of Engineering", 'Undergraduate
View our undergraduate programmes in Biomedical Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Mechatronics.
Engineering Foundation Year
Discover our alternative route to entry, designed to open up an exciting world of opportunities for students who do not meet our standard entry requirements.
Work Placements
Explore Our Postgraduate Opportunities and Research
Postgraduate
View our range of postgraduate opportunities. We offer a range of taught and research-based postgraduate programmes that offer a chance to future your academic studies.
Research
The School of Engineering is proud to deliver cutting-edge research which aims to shape the future by addressing our time's transdisciplinary grand engineering challenges. 
Athena SWAN
Learn more about our commitment in the School of Engineering to promoting and advancing womens careers in higher education and research in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine.
Join the Engineering Community
International Community
Find out more about the international opportunities available within the School of Engineering including information on the International Award Scheme.
Student Support Team
Meet our dedicated student experience and support team who provide engineering students with the guidance needed to successfully navigate from fresher to graduate.
Staff List 
Meet our staff in the School of Engineering.
Industrial Advisory Board
Find out more about our Industrial Advisory Board and its members.


Sustainable Systems | Sustainable Energy and Power | University of LincolnRenewable energy has played a critical role today to battle the deepening crisis of climate change and global warming to cause the impact of environmental ecosystem balance due to greenhouse gas emission. Our researches at Lincoln school of engineering are more interested in sustainable system research for biofuel production to generate clean renewable hydrogen energy and their implementation over socioeconomic challenge and environmental impact. 


Manufacturing, Processing and Materials | Research | University of LincolnProjects
Facilities
Blog and News


Health Monitoring and Diagnostics | Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence | University of LincolnThe availability of machines and plants is an essential requirement for productivity. In order to minimise unplanned downtimes, it is necessary to detect the sources of error at an early stage. Our research is focused on developing algorithms and techniques that continuously monitor complex systems to detect/predict abnormal system behaviour. We specially develop model-based and AI-based algorithms for condition monitoring of industrial gas turbines to enable condition-based maintenance scheduling as well as prediction of emerging faults.
Contact Us
School of Engineering, College of Health and ScienceUniversity of Lincoln, Isaac Newton Building,Brayford Pool, University of, Lincoln LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Postgraduate Programmes | School of Engineering | University of LincolnSchool of Engineering Postgraduate Programmes



DTP Studentships | School of Engineering | University of Lincoln
EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) Studentships
The University of Lincoln has received funding from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) to establish a Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), which will provide skills and training to foster the next generation of world-class research leaders in areas of strategic importance to both EPSRC and the University of Lincoln.
Our training programme prioritises the following three thematic areas of robotics and artificial intelligence: smart energy, medical diagnosis and healthcare support systems, and bio-physics inspired robotics, in which the University has strong research groups. These research groups will provide DTP students with a rich research environment and a broad range of experienced and new researchers.
Each studentship will be associated with a specific project that will be designed to advance fundamental research in computer science or engineering within one of the thematic areas. Interdisciplinary links with other subject areas will also be expected.Studentship applications are now open for entry into the DTP programme, starting in October 2021.Please make sure to check theeligibility criteria before you apply.Normally, a student must have no restrictions on how long they can stay in the UK and have been ordinarily resident in the UK for at least 3 years prior to the start of the studentship. UK students will be eligible for a full studentship, covering the costs of Home fees, a stipendto support living costsfor 3.5 years, and a generous research training support grant enabling international travel and participation in the leading conferences and symposia.Although most DTP students must be UK residents,we also have an opportunity for an international (EU and non-EU)student.The international studentship award will be subject to eligibility, and also the availability of complementary funding (to provide the differential to the international fee rate). You should get in touch with the lead supervisor before applying this award.
Closing date: Sunday 13 June 2021
DTP PhD Application Form 2021-22
Smart Energy
Nanostructural design of MnO2 cathodes for rechargeable aqueous Zn-ion batteries
Academic contact: Dr Guanjie He (ghe@lincoln.ac.uk), Senior Lecturer, School of Chemistry
This project aims at enhancing the collaboration between MSS Ltd and University of Lincoln, and to work on the mass production of cathode materials for Zn-ion batteries
The UK government has announced a Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution in 2020, emphasising the national importance for clean energy research. Offshore wind aims to produce 40 GW electricity by 2030, therefore, the energy storage technologies are essential to accelerating the shift to zero emission vehicles. Zn-ion batteries in aqueous electrolyte are one of the promising candidates for next-generation clean energy suppliers due to their cost-effective and safe properties, but the performance of cathode materials limited their large-scale application.
This project aims to develop low-cost and high-performance MnO2 cathode materials through nano-structural engineering. The mechanism will be studied via the advanced materials characterisation techniques, the battery evaluation in coin cells will be carried out. The mass production of the materials and grid scale battery application will be investigated. This studentship aims at building up long-term collaboration among our industrial partners (MSS Ltd., One electrical Ltd.) and the University of Lincoln. The regular travel (3 to 6 months) between Manchester and Lincoln is expected to enhance the links between the University and the companies.
Students can learn:
The ideal candidate should have, at a minimum, a 2.1 degree in chemistry, materials science, chemical engineering, or a related discipline. They must demonstrate skills and experience (or an aptitude for mastering) of the synthetic chemistry, electrochemistry - especially batteries. They should be academically curious and think deeply and creatively. They should communicate well in both written and spoken English. They should enjoy working with others from diverse backgrounds and take responsibility for the progress and quality of projects
Supervisory Team: Dr Guanjie He, University of Lincoln
Prof Waqar Ahmed, University of Lincoln






Undergraduate Courses | School of Engineering | University of Lincoln


Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence | Research | University of LincolnIndustrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence Research Group (IDSI)
The IDSI group, currently led byProf. Dirk Scharefer focuses on use-inspired cross-sector research that is steered by three sub-groups:
The fusion of these three sub-groups creates strong intra- and inter-disciplinary links that strengthen research and increase its impact. We work in close partnership with the stakeholders and end-users in the Automotive, Aerospace, Space, Energy, Telecommunication, IT, Agri-Food and Healthcare sectors. The firm industry-academic partnership helps us develop innovative solutions and rapidly test our technologies.
Internally, we collaborate with researchers in the School of Computer Science, School of Life Sciences, School of Mathematics and Physics, School of Sport and Exercise Science, Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, National Centre for Food Manufacturing, Lincoln International Business School, Lincoln Medical School and Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health.
Please visit our sub-groups for more details.

JPL Robotics/NASA, USA
Space Systems Laboratory, University of Maryland, USA
West Virginia University, USA
DEI  University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy
an Jiatong University, State Key Laboratory of Electrical Insulation and Power Equipment, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China", 'Volvo Group, Trucks Technology, Sweden
Volvo Car Corporation, Sweden
CRRC, China
Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS, Malaysia
Huawei, China
Tongji University, Shanghai, China
Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden
Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand
Sultan Qaboos University
University of Gvle - Hgskolan i Gvle
Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, India
Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, India
Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur, India
Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, West Bengal, India
University of South Florida, Tampa, USA
Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology (IIITD), Delhi, India
Multi-robot Systems, Czech Technical University in Prague
International University of Rabat, Morocco
Nanjing Agricultural University, China
Necmettin Erbakan University, Konya, Turkey
Soochow University, Suzhou, China
CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
Siemens Energy, UK
Veolia, UK
Faculty AI, UK
Performance Projects, UK
Printed Motor Works Ltd, UK
SAGA Robotics Ltd, UK
ARWAC, UK
Perpetual Labs, UK
Autodesk, UK
LPW Technology Ltd, UK
Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, UK
School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton, UK
Airbus Defence and Space, UK
Satellite Applications Catapult, UK
GMV Innovative Solutions, UK
Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd, UK
Astroscale, UK
D-Orbit New Space Solutions, UK
Infinite Orbits, UK
Thales Alenia Space, UK
Frazer-Nash Consultancy Ltd, UK
Added Value Solutions, UK
RHEA Group, UK
Alden Legal, UK
Shadow Robot, UK
Inovo Robotics, UK
Sundance Multiprocessor Technology Ltd, UK
Cambridge University Hospitals - Fertility Clinic, UK
Kustodian, UK
Touchlab, UK
Open University, UK
Department of Electronic Engineering, University of York, UK
School of Aerospace, Transport and Manufacturing, Cranfield University, UK
School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, University of Leeds, UK
Pretorian Technologies, UK
London South Bank University | London South Bank University, UK
Lab4Living, Sheffield Hallam University, UK
Edinburgh Neuroprosthetics, University of Edinburgh, UK
School of Science, Engineering and Environment, University of Salford, UK
School of Electronics and Computer Science, University of Southampton, UK
Imperial College London, UK
University College London, UK
University of Surrey, UK
Centre for Advanced Robotics, Queen Mary University of London, UK
Our Research
Health Monitoring and Diagnostics
Our research surrounding health monitoring and diagnostics is focused on developing algorithms and techniques that continuously monitor complex systems to detect/predict abnormal system behaviour. We specially develop model-based and AI-based algorithms for condition monitoring of industrial gas turbines.
Robotics and Automated Systems
The pioneering robotics research at Lincolns School of Engineering focuses on advancing the technologies that bind together Mechatronics, Automation and Control for meticulously designing smarter robots. Our vision is to facilitate the digital transformation of these industries and improve their efficiency.
Communications, Networks and Embedded Systems
The novel Internet of Things and Wireless Sensor Networks research at the School of Engineering focuses on enabling the technologies that bind together aspects of Communication, Networks, and Embedded Systems applied to Agri-Food, Smart Cities, Autonomous Systems, Water Management, and Healthcare.
Sustainable Energy and Power Research Group
The Power and Energy Group (PEG) conducts fundamental and applied research in all aspects of power and energy production, distribution, industrial prognostics and diagnostics, and control, with key application sectors including low carbon/emissions engines, gas turbines, energy storage and peak power buffer technologies, smart energy, and renewables.
Connect with Us
Contact Us
School of Engineering, College of Health and ScienceUniversity of Lincoln, Isaac Newton Building,Brayford Pool, University of, Lincoln LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Communications, Networks and Embedded Systems | Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence | University of LincolnCommunications, Networks and Embedded Systems
The novel Internet of Things and Wireless Sensor Networks research at the School of Engineering focuses on enabling the technologies that bind together aspects of Communication, Networks, and Embedded Systems applied to Agri-Food, Smart Cities, Autonomous Systems, Water Management, and Healthcare, just to mention few. Majority of the research activities within CNES are externally funded mostly on wireless sensor networks (WSNs) and Internet of Things (IoT) projects from various external funding bodies (approx. 3 million portfolio). CNES have an excellent record of accomplishment for developing and delivering solutions for organisations in the cold-storage facilities, farming, healthcare and food-manufacturing sectors. Our vision is to enable the digital transformation of these industries and improve their efficiency by designing and deploying novel smart IoT enabled WSNs systems. UoLs core aim is to connect academic expertise with partners in industry to pursue world-class research which takes on real-world challenges and opportunities, not only advancing the state-of-the-art in agri-food technology but improving the bottom line for businesses.
Contact Us
School of Engineering, College of Health and ScienceUniversity of Lincoln, Isaac Newton Building,Brayford Pool, University of, Lincoln LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Research | School of Engineering | University of LincolnWelcome
The School of Engineering is home to two research groups with interests based in Sustainable Energy and Power Systems and Industrial Digitalisation and Systems Intelligence (IDSI).
This School is dedicated to supporting innovative research of the highest quality. Our objective is to provide a global centre of excellence in industrial and commercial energy and high technology system sectors. For more information click on the images below to visit our research groups.
The SEP group provides a strategic focus for fundamental and applied research that includes activities in Smart Energy; Grid Development; Renewables Research for the Built Environment; Energy Harvesting; Prognostics and Diagnostics for Industrial Systems; Laser Technology for Industrial Systems; Power Electronic Conversion; Advanced Vehicle Control; and Biofuels Research, among others.
The IDSI research group conducts both fundamental and industry-driven research to advance innovation beyond the horizon. Our diverse research activity encompasses Artificial Intelligence; Advanced Control and Diagnostics; Dynamic System Modelling; Robotics; Image and Signal Processing; System Optimization and Human-Machine Interaction for a broad portfolio of real-life engineering applications.

ICaRE4Farms
The University of Lincoln is a project partner in the ICaRE4Farms (I4F) project. This project intends to boost the use of solar thermal energy (STE) in farming in North-West Europe, contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increase the share of renewable energies, help the transition to a low-carbon economy and meet the EU 2030 goal of 27% share for renewable energy. Solar thermal energy is affordable renewable energy to heat water and has a huge potential to replace fossil energies.
Through transnational cooperation, the I4F project will test next-generation STE systems in four agricultural sectors that require hot water to feed livestock (calves) and heat farm buildings (poultry, pigs) and greenhouses (horticulture). The project partners will share good practices and implement the solution taking into account the features of each region and sector, will install and monitor four pilot sites to test and demonstrate the technology, and will support the deployment of other 17 flagship STE systems to improve the economic model and validate the greenhouse gas cuts.
Find out More
Contact Us
School of Engineering, College of Health and ScienceUniversity of Lincoln, Isaac Newton Building,Brayford Pool, University of, Lincoln LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


ICaRE4Farms | Research | University of LincolnProject Summary
The University of Lincoln is a project partner in the ICaRE4Farms (I4F) project. This project intends to boost the use of solar thermal energy (STE) in farming in North West Europe, to contribute to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the share of renewable energies, to help the transition to a low-carbon economy and meet the EU 2030 goal of 27% share for renewable energy. Solar thermal energy is an affordable renewable energy to heat water and has a huge potential to replace fossil energies.
Through transnational cooperation, the I4F project will test next generation STE systems in four agricultural sectors that require hot water to feed livestock (calves) and heat farm buildings (poultry, pigs) and greenhouses (horticulture). The technology that I4F will test is up to three times more efficient than traditional STE systems (900 vs. 350kWh/m). It has shown to be reliable, affordable, easy to install and long lifetime (40 years) with low maintenance requirements. It allows a 70% reduction of GHG emitted for water heating.
The project partners will share good practices and implement the solution taking into account the features of each region and sector, will install and monitor four pilot sites to test and demonstrate the technology, and will support the deployment of other 17 flagship STE systems to improve the economic model and validate the greenhouse gas cuts. The outcome of the monitoring will be fed into a feasibility assessment tool and a digital model of the STE system, including software for the farmers to manage the system. The project partners will build a transnational network of distributors and installers to roll-out STE in NWE, to lead the market uptake.
Find out more
Follow the I4F project on Twitter.








Robotics and Automated Systems | Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence | University of LincolnThe pioneering robotics research at the School of Engineering focuses on advancing the technologies that bind together Mechatronics, Automation and Control for meticulously designing smarter robots. Application sectors targeted currently include but not limited to Space, Healthcare, Automotive, Manufacturing, Energy, Aerospace and Agri-Food. Our vision is to facilitate the digital transformation of these industries and improve their efficiency by deploying intelligent robotic systems; such innovations will offer enterprises more flexibility in product development while providing better resilience.
The School of Engineering proactively engages with other vital institutes and schools (e.g. School of Computer Science, Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, National Centre for Food Manufacturing, Lincoln International Business School) to drive a far-reaching research and development programme in robotics. Hand-in-hand with the School of Computer Science, the School of Engineering is propelling the Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research(L-CAS), which is an internationally renowned centre for cross-disciplinary research in robotics and autonomous systems.In addition to creating new opportunities in Lincolnshire, we collaborate with industry stakeholders and end-users to maximise the impact of our research.
Contact Us
School of Engineering, College of Health and ScienceUniversity of Lincoln, Isaac Newton Building,Brayford Pool, University of, Lincoln LN6 7TS
enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Student Support Team | School of Engineering | University of LincolnMeetthe School of Engineering Student Experience and Support Team

If you find yourself having questions or needing support in regards to your studies, please directly contact the appropriate individual below.
Katie Robinson
Support of Undergraduate Programmes (BEng, MEng, Degree Apprenticeships)
Mandy Goldson
Support of Postgraduate Taught Programmes (MSc)
Christine McDermott
Support of Postgraduate Research Programme (PhD, MPhil, MSc by Research)


Widening Participation | School of Engineering | University of LincolnWidening Participation Route to Engineering at Lincoln
Are you interested in studying engineering at university but dont think you have the qualifications for standard university entry? At Lincoln, we value life experiences and determination and want to give everyone the opportunity to succeed. Consequently, we are looking for students who can demonstratetheir potential by showing ustheir personal skills such as self-motivation, effective teamwork, and strong verbal and written communicationin order to potentially gain a place onour Science Foundation Year.
The Science Foundation Year aims to prepare students for degree-level study, by equipping them with the skills and knowledge needed to be successful. The course is designed to open up an exciting world of opportunities within engineering for students who do not meet standard university entry requirements. Find out if our Engineering Science FoundationYear course is the route for you by exploring ouralternativeentry requirements below.
Entry Requirements:
You can also find out more about our Science Foundation Year including how you study, available facilities, and teaching staff onthecourse webpage.


Industrial Advisory Board | School of Engineering | University of LincolnIndustrial Advisory Board
s Industrial Advisory Board", "The University of Lincoln's School of Engineering maintains an Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) to utilise their perspective and experience to enhance the Schools position, as a centre of excellence for teaching, learning, and research with a view to maximise employability, opportunities for graduates, and to promote engineering activities and the ethos of the School.", 'Darren Joint
Managing Director of Viking Signs Ltd
Dr David Phillips
Engineering Director of Eminox Ltd
Neil Main
Managing Director of Micrometric Ltd
Gary Stimson
Teledyne
Graham Webber
Engineering and Development Manager for Schneider Electric
Neil Main
Managing Director of Micrometric Ltd
William Izod
Chief Commercial Officer of Pensana
Dr Nikola Chalashkanov
Senior Lecturer of Electrical/Electronics Engineering
Fiona Burstow
Secretary to the Industrial Advisory Board
 fburstow@lincoln.ac.uk


Staff Contact List | School of Engineering | University of LincolnSchool of Engineering Staff


