Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism | College of Arts Social Sciences and Humanities | University of LincolnLincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism
Scrutinise. Entertain. Innovate.
Welcome
We haveforged a reputation for excellence built on outstandingfacilities, a diverse portfolio of programmes, and strong relationships with the creative industries. We aim to equipyou with the skills, knowledge and experience required for a successful career in the competitive marketplace.
ll begin producingoriginal materialand have access to professional-standardequipment and resources.", 'Employability is at the heart of everything we do.We havestrong links with media and film organisations including, the BBC, ITV, Panasonic, Sky, Adobe, BAFTA, the Royal Television Society, and the British Film Institute, which create opportunities for work experience and networking.Our international partnerships with universities across Europe, the USA, China, South East Asia, Australia, and Latin America, facilitate exciting overseas study opportunities.
s web TV news service LSJNews, and our students' own newspaper, The Linc.", 'Our dedicated, caring, and accomplished staff are here to help you thrive and succeed. We hope to meet you soon at an Open Day.
Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate courses available in the Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism.
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Courses
Take a look at our range of postgraduate taught and research programmes within the Lincoln School of Film and Media.
Postgraduate Courses
Research
Find out about exciting research taking place in the Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism.
See Our Research
School Staff
Find staff members within the Lincoln School of Film and Media.
View School Staff List
Facilities
The Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism offers specialist facilities,professional-standardequipmentand creative spaces for students to develop their skills in preparation fortheirfuture career.
Audio Production Suite
Lincoln Sound Theatre
A Pro Tools 5.1 dubbing theatre for mixing sound to picture, featuring a large-screen projector, a full Foley sound effects area and a commentary booth for voice-over and ADR. Plus Sound Theatre B, a smaller facility for stereo audio post-production work. 
Photography Studios
Studios are fully-fitted with electronic flash lighting and backdrops, with access to a range of stills cameras of varying formats. We have film processing facilities, darkrooms, as well as digital image editing software. 
Radio studios
Multi-track Recording Studios
Two multi-track recording studios comprise control rooms and recording areas including live rooms, dead rooms and a drum isolation booth for music and drama production. Equipment includes: Pro Tools, Audient ASP8024 mixing consoles (24 and 12 channels), UA Apollo and Antelope Orion AD/DA, Genelec 8030A & Mix Cube monitoring. 
The Parlour 
The Parlour is a high-end finishing and grading suite and provides colour correction, creative compositing and image repair. It is equipped with high-spec Mac Pros, high-grade monitors and tangent panel control surfaces. Software includes Autodesk SMOKE, FLAME and DaVinci Resolve.
Video editing and post production
The Media and Broadcast Production Centre offers non-linear digital post-production for HD Video Editing. There are 18 HD video editing suites, each with 8TB storage and 32GB RAM and featuring Avid Media Composer V8, Adobe Premiere CC, DaVinci Resolve and a range of other software. We offer full HD shooting and editing, using Panasonic AVcHD, Canon C100 and Sony FS100 cameras.
Media Loans centre
Extensive media kit for student loan including cameras, lights, grip and audio recording equipment. 
Animation suite
Newsrooms
State-of-the-art newsrooms with rolling news feeds, individual workstations, professional design software and print production capabilities. 
TV Studios
Two TV studios, one with an audience capacity of 135 and an area of over 2,500 sq ft. Features include, high definition 1080i studio cameras, extensive studio lighting, sound desk, autocue and audio and video software connectivity.


Postgraduate Programmes | Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism | University of Lincoln


Research | University of LincolnIn this section
Research in the Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism
Questions of representation, ethics, credibility, and perspective undoubtedly pervade the 21st-century media landscape. From TV streaming practices to global cinemas, from authority to authorship, mass media to convergence, emergence to ecology, the media infiltrate, underpin, and inform every aspect of society. In such a complex and changing climate, it is beyond doubt that our capacity to study, analyse and critique both the media themselves and the industries to which they belong is a fundamental need. Equally, our ability to research and study media and culture ranks among the most essential skills required to understand our world.
Lincoln School of Film, Mediaand Journalism is home to a community of researchers who explore precisely these questions about culture, consumption, creativity, and communication, consistently pushing at the boundaries of media research. Across film, television, sound studies, digital media, media ecologies, and critical philosophies, our research responds to a broad range of themes relating to culture, society, and media practice. We are united by a passion for collaboration, speculative thinking, and practical research across all disciplines relating to media and culture.
Our Journalism researchfosters a range of innovative and problem driven research that addresses contemporary societal issues in a globalised world. The team specialises in interdisciplinary research and research in emerging scholarly fields.
Dr Andrew Elliott, Director of Research
ResearchThemes
Extrasonic Practice Research Group
Extra Sonic Practice (ESP) are a group of scholars and artists who work with sound in multiple contexts and configurations. Playfully and knowingly (re)appropriating the acronym from its origin (Extra Sensory Perception)  ESPis a response to the growing prevalence of sound within various disciplinary contexts. The extra of the groups title points to sounds connections to other media, sensory phenomena and theoretical concepts. Italso alludes to the difficulty in drawing a clear distinction between the sonic and the vibrational, the heard and the felt, audibility and inaudibility.Take a look at theExtrasonic Practice Research Groupfor more details.
Film and Screen StudiesCluster
Film and Screen Studies researchers in the School pursue a wide range of enquiries into stardom, national and transnational cinemas, broadcasting and childrens television, issues of exclusion and marginalization and questions of representations of race, gender and sexuality. Although diverse, the projects are imbricated as a broad engagement with who is speaking in what ways to whom, and who are excluded from or relegated to the margins of culture in the system of representation. Enquiries into Italian women stars career trajectories in Hollywood and female fandom overlap and inform projects on Hungarian cinematic nation building, exploitation cinema and youth-oriented British TV programming. Audience and star studies, archival research and textual analysis, national and transnational cinema theory are amongst approaches taken and reflect our breadth of supervision interests and openness to collaborative, innovative and transdisciplinary approaches to research. See below for specific supervision interests.
Staff Details
Gbor Gergelysresearch interests are focused around questions of belonging and foreignness in popular film in a variety of national cinema settings. He would especially welcome proposals on questions of migration and exclusion and their performance and representation on screen, in particular in, but not limited to the context of Hollywood, Hungary and France; on questions of industry organization and regulation in relation to the marginalization and exclusion of specific real or imagined communities; on questions of Hungarian national identity and/or anti-Semitism in any period of cinema. His current projects focus on the notion of the foreign accent and a sound-oriented approach to questions of foreignness. Gbors most recent funded research project is theAnti-Semitism and Hungarian Cinema project, which was funded by the Leverhulme Trust under its Early Career Fellowship scheme (2012-15).
Recent publications:
Gergely, Gbor (2017) Hungarian film 1929-1947: national identity, anti-Semitism and popular cinema. Amsterdam: AUP.
Gergely, Gbor (2017) The invention of prestige: people on the mountain and the politics of the national. Slavonica.
Gergely, Gbor (2017) "The jungle Is my home": questions of belonging, exile, and the negotiation of foreign spaces in the Tarzan films of Johnny Weissmuller. In: Projecting the world: representing the "foreign" in classical Hollywood. Contemporary Approaches to Film and Media. Detroit: Wayne State UP. pp. 69-87.
Gergely, Gbor (2012) The nature of the exile: discourse and power in The Thief of Bagdad (1940). Journal of British Cinema and Television. pp. 159-176.

Neil Jackson researches exploitation cinemas and porn cultures. He was co-organiser of the Global Exploitation Cinemas: Historical and Critical Approaches conference held at Lincoln in 2015. Neil welcomes enquiries from students wishing to undertake research in these and related areas.
Recent publications:
Jackson, Neil (2016) Bigger than payphone, smaller than a Cadillac :porn stardom in Exhausted: J.C.Holmes The Real Story In. Grindhouse: Cultural Exchange on 42nd Street and Beyond: Global Exploitation Cinemas. (Bloomsbury)
Jackson, Neil et al (eds) (2015) Snuff: Real Death and Screen Media (Bloomsbury).

Antonella Palmieri works on the politics of gender, sexual and ethnic representations in popular film and television. She has published on Italian cinema and star studies and on Italianness in Hollywood cinema. She welcomes applications from prospective research students wishing to work in all areas of celebrity and star studies.
Recent publications:
(2016) Sophia Loren and the healing power of female Italian ethnicity in Grumpier Old Men. In: Lasting screen stars: images that fade and personas that endure. Palgrave
(2014) "America is home... America is her oyster!": Dynamics of ethnic assimilation in Alida Valli's American star persona. In: Stars in world cinema: screen icons and star systems across cultures. Tauris World Cinema . I.B.Taurus.
Media Histories and Archive Cluster
The Media Histories and Archives research cluster reflects a diverse group of researchers. The cluster is united by their analysis of and research into the ways in which the media - especially the moving image - reflects the past, as well as the ways in which we as scholars go about understanding the history of those media themselves, and the impact of archival policies on the memory of earlier media. The cluster includes scholars of historical film, television and video games, and researchers of film cultures, Hollywood film, and queer theory in cinema and television.
Staff Details
Dr Andrew Elliottis the coordinator of this research cluster. He is Senior Lecturer in Media and Cultural Studies, and works on the representation of history in film, TV, and video games, as well as online cultures of historical commemoration. He has published four books on medieval film, games and history, the epic film and medievalism in 21st-century online culture, as well as articles on media depictions of the past and medievalism more generally.
Recent publications:
(2017)Medievalism, politics and mass media: appropriating the Middle Ages in the twenty-first century. Boydell and Brewer, Woodbridge.
(2016)Arthurian fragments, Arthurian mosaics.Arthuriana: The journal of Arthurian studies, 25 (4). pp. 14-24.
(2015)The Grail as symbolic quest in Andrei Tarkovskys Stalker.In: The Holy Grail on Film: Essays on the Cinematic Quest. McFarland, Jefferson, N.C., pp. 187-201
(2014)The return of the epic film: genre, aesthetics and history in the 21st century.Edinburgh University Press.

Dr Chris ORourkeis a historian of media, especially film and television, and popular culture.
Recent publications:
(2017)Acting for the silent screen: film actors and aspiration between the wars. Cinema and Society. I. B. Tauris
(2017)London on film. Screening Spaces. Palgrave Macmillan
(2017)Queer London on film: Victim (1961), The Killing of Sister George (1968) and Nighthawks (1978). In: London on Film. Screening Spaces. Palgrave Macmillan
Practice-based Research Group
s degrees in any discipline, and we will be happy to work with you from proposal stage through to formal application in order to make sure we can facilitate your research project.", 'Staff Details
Jane Batkinis an animator with research interests in the history, theory and practice of animation in the context of the cultural and creative industries.
Recent publications:
(2017) Identity in animation:a journey into self, difference, culture and the body. Routledge.
(2016) Rethinking the rabbit: revolution, identity and connection in Looney Tunes. Animation Studies Online Journal, 11.

Mikey Murrayis a practice-based research specializing in film. He is also an award winning film-maker, writer and director. He is founding Director of the Indie-Lincs Film Festival. His most recent credit is Natalie (2016) - co-funded by BFI via Ffilm Cymru Wales, starring Bafta winning actress, Kate Dickie. He is winner of several awards, including:
Best Sci-Fi Short Film Philip K. Dick International Sci-Film Film Festival, New York
John Hefin Award - Best Short Film made in Wales Carmarthen Bay Film Festival, Wales.
Best Sci-Fi/Fantasy Short Film Screentest Film Festival, London.

Conohar Scotthas completed a practice-based PhD on the subject of the photographer as environmental activist, and he continues to conduct research on the representation of environmental despoliation in photography. As part of his practice, Conohar founded the artist-led collective Environmental Resistance,which raises awareness of industrial pollution and engages incampaigns for environmental remediation. In addition, he publishes papers which examine the history of environmental activism in photography, the aesthetics of industrial pollution, and the function that multi-modality plays in environmental advocacy.
Recent publications:
s & Kate Orff's Petrochemical America.In: The Routledge companion to photography theory.", '(2017)Photographing mining pollution in gold rush California.Photographies, 10 (2). pp. 189-209.
(2017)Environmental resistance: art for change. Collaborative working practices.In: Photographers and research: the role of research in contemporary photographic practice. Focal Press, UK.
The co_Lab Research Group
co_LAB is the Collaboration Laboratory Research Network, which was initiated by staff from the Lincoln School of Film and Media. co_LAB is designed to explore and develop new approaches to collaborative teaching and learning through the use of networked digital tools, and through the transferral of knowledge, skillsets and teaching styles. Our projects involve working with mixed disciplinary groups of students, utilising discovery-based learning methods to explore issues pertinent to digital culture. The aim is to develop interdisciplinary and collaborative methods for innovation and social entrepreneurship, resulting in a variety of institutional and community focused projects.
In addition to undertaking a variety of practice-based research projects across the University and local community, co_LAB has developed a substantial European network of partner universities, departments and practitioners. This network has resulted in collaboration on externally-funded projects and international strategic alliances to enable the sharing of pedagogical practice, and to enhance student mobility.
Current and Recent Research Students
Current PhD Students
John Sandy-Hindmarch
Andrew West
Lynsey Coombs (registered in the School of History and Heritage)
Anthonia Ziregbe
Barnaby Falck
Grant Bridges
Paul Sinclair
Zara Healy
Diane Charlesworth

Recently Completed PhD Students
Alberto Micali (Awarded 2016)
Wang Chi (Awarded 2017)
Tom Philip Edwards (Awarded 2018)
Rachel Barraclough (Awarded 2018)
Niall Flynn (Awarded 2019).

Current MA by Research Students
Emma Moorhouse
Ben Simmons
Michelle Meade

Completed MA by Research Students
Tom Martin
Rose Braisby
David Ayres
Luke Compton
Tom Durrans
Sophie Hillman
Funded Research Projects
Lincoln School of Film and Media is home to a range of vibrant research projects. Current funded research includes:
- Televisual Caricature: An Evaluation of satirical impersonation focusing on transnational, transmedia and industrial contexts, PI Hannah Andrews,funded by British Academy, 2022-24.
-Invisible Worlds: Place-Making, Augmented Reality, and Alderley Edge, Co-I Andrew Elliott, funded by AHRC Project Grant, 2020-23.
-Pause for Thought: Media Literacy in an Age of Incessant Change, PI: Tom Sutherland, funded by AHRC Research Network Grant, 2020-22.
Past projects have included major AHRC project grants to study Televising History, Comics and the World Wars, Arts Council England Funding to explore Youth Engagement in Politics and Sincil Bank redevelopment projects (working with Lincoln BIG and City of Lincoln Council, and ESRC funding to explore Online Information about Drug Use.
Find out More
Connect with Us


Undergraduate Courses | Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism | University of Lincoln


School Staff | Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism | University of LincolnLincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism Staff


Journalism Research | Research | University of LincolnJournalism Research
The intellectual environment at Lincoln fosters a range of innovative and problem driven interdisciplinary research that addresses contemporary societal issues in a globalised world. The team specialises in interdisciplinary research and research in emerging scholarly fields, including:
The team extends knowledge and understanding through a wide range of publications. Some of their research projects have been supported by grants from the British Academy, Economic and Social Science Research Council, and Arts and Humanities Research Council.
The team is active in research associations both nationally and globally including:American Journalism Historians Association(AJHA);Association forJournalismEducation(AJE);Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication(AEJMC);European CommunicationCongress;EuropeanResearch and Education Association(ECREA),International Association for Media and Communication Research(IAMCR);Irish Humanities Network(IHN);Media Communication and Cultural Studies Association(MeCCSA);Media History Network(USA);Portuguese Journalism Historians(ICNOVA);Worlds of Journalism Studies(WJS);World Journalism EducationPractice(WJEC).
Existing research networks in the School include Media of Diaspora Research Group (MDRG) and Journalism Education and Trauma Research Group (JETREG).
Research Specialisms
s first onscreen reporter for the north of England. She has authored or co-produced 13 books and 40 articles and book chapters, winning awards from the New York Film and TV Festival, Best Academic Article of the Year by Emerald Publishing, and sharing the 2017 Colby Prize for Victorian Literature, for the Routledge Handbook of 19th Century Periodicals. At the University of Lincoln, Jane has received research grants from the British Academy, ESRC and AHRC. As an advisor to the BBC for their World War One at Home series, she encouraged public commemoration of the First World War centenary through newspaper heritage.", 'Dr Ola Ogunyemi is the convenor of an international and multidisciplinary Journalism Education and Trauma Research Group (JETREG) and Media of Diaspora Research Group (MDRG) at the University of Lincoln. Ola is an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Mass Communication at Bowen University, Nigeria. He is also a Senior Academic Mentor in the College of Mentors at the Council for the Development of Social Research in Africa (CODESRIA), working to strengthen capacity in teaching, research, and mentoring in the social sciences and humanities in African universities. Ola regularly publishes articles in journals and chapters in edited books and is the founder/principal editor of the Journal of Global Diaspora and Media.
Dr Sanem Sahins research interests include peace and conflict reporting, journalistic roles and marginalised communities. She is especially interested in journalists role perceptions and practices in conflict-affected communities. Her first monograph, Journalism Matters: Peace and Conflict Reporting in Cyprus, is forthcoming with Palgrave MacMillan in 2022. The book, which examines journalisms role in the Cyprus conflict, has been supported by a BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grant (1819). Her current research projects focus on the impact of social media on journalism in divided communities and journalism, risk and uncertainty, which is part of World of Journalism Studies, a global research project that assesses the state of journalism throughout the world.
Research Projects
Bridging the Gulf Between Mainstream and Diasporic Public Spheres: An Analysis of Channel 4s Digital Project
Principal Investigator: Dr Ola Ogunyemi
Dr Ola Ogunyemi, convenor of the Media of Diaspora Research Group, has published widely on issues relating to the journalism practices at the media for the African Diasporas in the UK. Dr Ogunyemi welcomes PhD research enquiries about the journalism practices at the media of diaspora and/or the media habits of the diasporic groups.

Comics and the World Wars
A cultural record
Principal Investigator: Professor Jane ChapmanResearch Assistant: Anna HoylesResearch Consultant: Dan EllinPhD students: Adam Sherif and Andrew KerrProject Consultant: Dr Kent Worcester
The centenary of 1914-18, as well as thecommemoration of the 70th anniversary of the end of World War 2, gave these epic events a high public profile worldwide. This timely project asked the question: what is the contribution of the comic form to the cultural heritage of these global experiences and what different kinds of historical meaning emerge?
The project research and the two major exhibitions that accompanied it  one on World War One comics in 2014 and one on Second World War comics in 2015, both at Londons Cartoon Museum- emphasised to the heritage industry the potential of comics as a cultural artefact.
Research areasinclude:
Creating a Safe Space for Journalists to Speak About Trauma: Examining the Roles of Journalism Educators
Principal Investigator: Dr Ola Ogunyemi
This study, supported by a British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grant, contributes to literature on journalism and trauma which established that journalists lack safe spaces to speak about trauma. Evidence shows that the prevalence of PTSD among journalists is higher than the general population and that they are engaging in avoidance responses (numbing out, avoiding reminders of the event, diminished interests) as coping strategies. We argue that journalism educators have a role to play in creating safe spaces to talk about trauma, but there is a paucity of research exploring their understanding of trauma and its effects on practising journalists. This study aims to bridge this gap by conducting in-depth interviews with journalism educators about their awareness of trauma and its effects, and focus groups between journalism educators and mainstream/diaspora journalists to develop a framework for building resilience to trauma among journalists and journalism students, which could assist journalism schools to offer resilience training in their courses.

Feminising Influences on Mass Circulation: A Comparative Study of Le Petit Journal and the Daily Mail
A comparative studyof Le Petit Journal and the Daily Mail
Principal Investigator : Professor Jane ChapmanResearch Assistant : Kate Allison
The concerns of this project demonstrate the continuing dilemmas of how female identity is to be represented by the media and the repercussions for citizenship and the public sphere. This is the first time that female influence on the early mass circulation press has been quantified in detail, and also the first time that comparisons have been made on the theme between two countries. The research into Europes first mass circulation daily and into Britains first tabloid daily reveals that criticisms of tabloidisation have a historical as well as a contemporary dimension. This dates back to the formative years of the tabloid; in other words, it is not a purely 20th century phenomenon. Press historians have assumed that the obvious widening of audience appeal in the mass circulation popular press, referred to as New Journalism with its fresh emphasis on trivia, crime coverage and pulp serialised fiction, also implied a progressive view of women. Our findings prove otherwise, refuting the feminisation argument. Decisions about what the female audience was interested in were made largely by men and defined fairly conservatively.
Journalism in Conflict Societies: Professional Roles, Influences and Challenges
Principal Investigator: Dr Sanem ahin
Dr Sanem ahin was awarded a BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grant (2018-19) for her project, Journalism in Conflict Societies: Professional Roles, Influences and Challenges. It examined journalists role perceptions and practices in Cyprus to understand how journalists negotiate the tensions between professionalism and a sense of communal belonging in conflict-affected societies. Interviewing journalists and editors from both sides of the divided island, the project studied how they perceived their roles and responsibilities concerning the conflict.
Women, Press and Protest in British and French India, 1928-48
Principal Investigator: Professor Jane ChapmanResearch Assistants : Kate Allison, Piers Clarke
This exhibition presented two episodes in 20thcentury Indian history when newspapers expressed the emerging citizenship of protest by the freedom movement in India. Press articles and leaflets  sometimes read out loud to a group of people then destroyed because of censorship, sometimes consumed individually- acted as the main vehicle for the public communication of ideas. Some journals were used as temporary acts of defiance to mobilise support for change. Nationalist leaders and activists also aimed for coverage of protest in the existing colonial newspapers in order to influence the climate of opinion in support for change. A variety of newspapers, despite sometimes only having small circulations, still became part of the changing economic and political landscape that they were reporting on.

This exhibition focused on two little known aspects of press and protest  one in Allahabad, United Provinces (Uttar Pradesh) in British India, one in the French territory of Pondicherry (Tamil Nadu).


Centre for Research in Journalism | Journalism Research | University of LincolnMajor research interests
The study of different models of journalism has led the Centre, in particular, to identify peace journalism as a significant area of research. (See Richard Keeble, John Tulloch, Florian Zollmann eds (2010)PeaceJournalism, War and Conflict Resolution, New York: Peter Lang). Research is fed directly into the teaching at the Lincoln School of Journalism.
Links with Indian institutions and, within the UK, the developing area of diaspora studies has also led to a greater focus on South Asian journalism and the journalism of diaspora within and beyond the UK. Dr Ola Ogunyemi has established a diasporic research group, with partners in other universities and his book on media of African diasporas: production, content and audiences is to be published by Edwin Mellen. Professor Jane Chapman has made major contributions to the study of comparative media history: see Jane Chapman (2005)Comparative Media History, London: Polity.
Professor Chapman has also pioneered the study of gender in the history of print publications from a counter-hegemonic standpoint in both France and India, with research grants since 2007 from the British Academy, the ESRC and AHRC. Journalism, in fact, is one of the few schools in the university to have continuous research council grant funding since 2007. Given a national success rate of 10-13 per cent at obtaining grants, this is a considerable achievement and places Lincoln amongst the top universities internationally for journalism research.
Alongside this,Professor Chapmanleads theComics and the World Wars research group.With the centenary of 1914-18 approaching, followed by commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War 2, these epic events will receive a high public profile worldwide. She has also given talks at the world renownedTED conferences.
A group of LSJ staff have developed strong research interests in the study of the relationship of journalism and literature, in part through the delivery of the module Journalism and Literature on Lincolns MA in Journalism and embodied in published work submitted for the last RAE. LSJ colleagues Professors Keeble, Tulloch, and Chapman, Nick Nuttall and Deborah Wilson collaborated in the production of the ground-breaking text:The Journalistic Imagination: Literary Journalists from Defoe to Capote and Carter(Routledge, London, 2007). A follow-up publication,Global Literary Journalism, edited by Richard Keeble and John Tulloch was published in 2012 by Peter Lang Publishing Inc, New York.
Work submitted for the last REF had a strong focus on issues of freedom of expression and journalism ethics and policy (for example, Professor Brian Winstons work on freedom of expression, Professor Richard Keebles work on journalism ethics and editorship ofEthical Space: The International Journal of Communication Ethics ,for the Institute of Communication Ethics, of which he is a director, and Professor John Tullochs work on press coverage of human rights abuses). This work is continuing.
Research Centre Members
The following academic staff are Research Centre members:
Professor Jane Chapman (Research Professor in Communication, Journalism and Communications History Group)
Professor Richard Lance Keeble (Co-Director , Journalism Policy, Ethics and Freedom of Expression Group)
Dr Ola Ogunyemi (PL in Journalism, Diasporic Media Research Group)
Lioba Suchenwirth (PhD student)
Deborah Wilson (Acting Head of school, Community Media and Citizen Journalism Research Group)
Professor Brian Winston, (Lincoln Chair)
Florian Zollmann (PhD student and assistant on John Pilger digital archive project)
Comics and the World Wars research group
Professor Jane Chapman (PI)
Anna Hoyles (RA)
Dan Ellin (RC)
Adam Sherrif and Andrew Kerr (PhD students)
Dr Kent Worcester (PC)
Dr Sanem Sahin (Lecturer)
External Members
Visiting Professors
Yasmin Alibhai-Brown, columnist and broadcaster
Dorothy Byrne, head of Channel 4 News and Current Affairs
Bridget Kendall, BBC diplomatic correspondent
Angela Rippon, internationally acclaimed broadcaster
Visiting Senior Fellows
Jane King, Editor, Farmers Weekly
Charlie Partridge, Managing Editor, BBC Lincolnshire
Sean Dunderdale,Director of Programming for Lincs FM Group
Recent Publications
Jane Chapman
Forthcoming:
2014: Representations of female war-time bravery in AustraliasWanda the War GirlandJane at War from the UK in:Fashion and War in Popular Culture, ed. D.N. Rall, Intellect Books, Bristol.
2014: Gandhi as Literary Journalist inHind Swaraj, eds. Keeble & TullochGlobal Literary Journalism, NY, Peter Lang.
Published:
Gender, Citizenship, and Newspapers: Historical and Trans-national Perspectives,Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, monograph, Sussex University, 2012
Multi-panel comic narratives in Australian First World War trench publications as citizen journalism, Australian Journal of Communication, Vol 39 (3) , pp.1- 22. Co-author Dan Ellin, 2012
Key Readings in Journalism,(Routledge, USA), co-author Elliot King, 2012
From Indias Big Dams to Jungle Guerillas - Arundhati Roy and the Literary Polemics of Global versus Localin Global Literary Journalism: Exploring the Journalistic Imagination, eds Richard Keeble & John Tulloch (New York, Peter Lang), 2012.
Comics and the representation of female war-time bravery in Wanda the War Girl (Australia)Australasian Journal of Popular CultureSingle author, vol. 1, no.2, pp.153-163, 2011
Journalism Today: A Themed History(Blackwell-Wiley, Malden, USA), with N.Nuttall, 2011
Women and the press in British India 1928-34: a window for protest?'International Journal of Social Economics, Vol. 38, No. 8, with Kate Allison 2011, best article of year award, Emerald Publishing.", "'Female representation, readership and early tabloid properties
A Business Trajectory: Assessing Female Influence and RepresentationinLe Petit Journal,2011", 'Europes First Mass Circulation Daily,Parcours de femmes:Twenty Years of Women in French,Peter Lang, Oxford and Bern, 2011
Counter-hegemony, newspapers and the origins of anti-colonialism in French India
Richard Lance Keeble
The Journalistic Imagination: Literary Journalists From Defoe to Capote and Carter(edited with Sharon Wheeler), Routledge, London, 2007
Peace Journalism, War and Conflict Resolution(edited with John Tulloch and Florian Zollmann) Peter Lang, New York
Ethics for Journalists, 2nd edition, Routledge, London, 2008
Afghanistan, War and Media: Deadlines and Frontlines(edited with John Mair) Arima, Bury St Edmunds
Media Values, editor, Troubador, Leicester, 2010
Ola Ogunyemi
The News Agenda of the Black African Press in the UK,Journal of Black Studies, Vol. 37, No. 5, May pp 630-654. Sage Publications, 2007
The Alternative Public Spaces for Black Arts in the UK: Challenges and Prospects,International Journal of Africana Studies,Volume 15, No. 1, 2010
Representation of Africa online: sourcing practice and frames of reference,Journal of Black Studies, Vol. 42, No. 3, April pp. 457-478, 2011
Sourcing and representation routines at the black African press in the UK, Rigoni, Isabelle and Saitta, Eugenie (eds)Mediating cultural diversity in a globalised public space, Basingstoke: Palgrave, 2012
Media of African diasporas: Production, content and audiences, Edwin Mellen Press Ltd, 2012
John Tulloch
s invaluable contribution to the field of Journalism and particularly recognition of his work as a valued colleague and associate of the University. In tribute to his family and friends we wish to ensure his legacy goes beyond his death and continues to resonate widely in academia.", 'Tulloch, John (2013) Commemorating Catastrophe: the British press, the culture of remembrance and the 10thanniversary of 9/11,Communication, Politics andCulture, Vol 46, no 1.
Tulloch, John (2013) The Perils of Sociability: Dickens, Victorian Journalism and the Detective Police,Charles Dickens and the Mid-Victorian Press, 1850-70, ed. Hazel Mackenzie and Ben Winyard, Foreword: Michael Slater, 417pp Buckingham: University of Buckingham ISBN 9781908684202.
Tulloch, John (2012) The return of the conchie: UK newspaper representations of conscientious objectors in total war in Stephen Gibson and Simon Mollan eds,Representations of Peace and Conflict, Palgrave Macmillan ISBN-10: 0230298664 ISBN-13: 978-0230298668
Tulloch, John (2012) An Outlaw Editor in the Endgame of the `indian Empire. F.W.Wilsons radicalization ofThe Pioneer1928-29 with Jane Chapman.Media History, 18 (3). ISSN 1368-8804.
Tulloch, John (2009) The British Tabloid Press inEncyclopedia of Journalism, ed. Christopher H. Sterling, Thousand Oaks, CA and London: Sage ISBN10:0761929576ISBN-13: 978-0761929574
Tulloch, John (2012) Gordon Burn: journalism as a novel; the novel as journalismin John Tulloch and Richard Keeble edsGlobal Literary Journalism, New York: Peter Lang ISBN 978-1-4331-1867-8 (hardback) ISBN 978-1-4331-1866-1 (paperback)
Deborah Wilson
An unscathed tourist of wars: The journalism of Martha Gellhorn, Keeble, Richard and Wheeler, Sharon, eds, The Journalistic Imagination, Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge, 2007
Paying the Piper: Funding Broadcast News, Chapman, Jane and Kinsey, Marie, eds,Broadcast Journalism: A Critical Introduction, Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge, 2008
Brian Winston
Caging the Copycat:Wie neue Technologien eingeschrn werdem. Eine Fallstudie: DasGoogle
Book Search Settlement, Jens Schroeter et al., eds,Kulturen des Kopierschutzes IINavigationen: Zeitscrift fr Medien- und Kulturwissenschaften,. Siegen:univsi (Universitatsverlag Siegen).Jg.10 H.2 2010
English Roots of the Free Press, Christopher Sterling, ed.,The Encyclopedia of Journalism. Los Angeles: Sage, 2009
The Right to Offend: Free Expression in the 21st Century, London: Bloomsbury, 2011
Florian Zollmann
Fighting fanatics, killing people: The limits of corporate journalism during the US assault on Fallujah,Ethical Space: The International Journal of Communication Ethics, Vol. 4, No. 4, pp. 24-29, 2007
Is it either or? Professional ideology vs. corporate-media constraints,Westminster Papers in Communication and Culture, Vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 97-118, 2009
Iraq and Dahr Jamail: War reporting from a peace perspective,Peace Journalism, War and Conflict Resolution, eds, Keeble, Richard Lance, Tulloch, John and Zollmann, Florian, New York: Peter Lang pp. 139-156, 2010
Doublethink in the mass media: Fallujah and the politics of human rights reporting,Ethical Space: The International Journal of Communication Ethics, Vol. 8, Nos. 1-2, pp. 25-31, 2011
John Pilgers Youth in Action series as an example of literary journalism,Global Literary Journalism, eds. Keeble, Richard Lance and Tulloch, John, Chicago: Northwestern University Press, 2012
External Research
2009-2011 Economic and Social Science Research Council (ESRC) funded small research grant Women, Press & Protest in British and French India, 1928-48 57,000 (FEC 71,000) Jane Chapman,
Professor Chapman also led a British Academy-funded research project: "Feminising Influences on Mass Circulation : a comparative study of Le Petit Journal and the Daily Mail", 
2011 15,000 Deborah Wilson secured from the ADM-HEA for the development project: civic journalism on community radio


