Dance &amp; Drama | University of LincolnIn this section
Welcome to Dance and Drama
Our Dance and Drama programmes are taught in theLincoln Arts Centre, a hub of creative performance in Lincoln with a 450-seat theatre, three large studios and a workshop for building sets and props.
Performing Arts courses link the academic study of the arts with the practical and creative disciplines of technique, performance and production. Students explore a variety of genres and influential playwrights, curators or choreographers, and develop their own style of performance.
Research in Performing Arts at Lincoln covers a variety of areas including theatre history, theatre and consciousness, theatre translation, playwriting, musical theatre, live art, somatic practices, digital performance and applied drama.
At all levels of study, from undergraduate to doctoral, students can participate in a variety of productions and join our semi-professional theatre group, The Lincoln Company, which takes six shows to the Edinburgh Festival Fringe each year.
Undergraduate Study
Postgraduate Study


Fine Art Research | Research | University of LincolnWelcome
The Fine Art Teams areas of arts research and practice are broad and diverse. Themes and specialisms include post humanism, aesthetics, cognitive science and art-science methodologies, territories explored specifically by artist and theorist Steve Klee. Steves writing on these subjects includes the article InhumanistArtand the Decolonisation of Naturewhich featured in the Journal of Nature in Visual Culture,Antennae.
From the perspectives of painting and curation, Andrew Braceys research interests explore what he terms Parasitical Painting: an alternative method for understanding appropriationartbased on a dialogue between contemporaryartists and historical paintings. The development of what Bracey describes as the controlled rummage can be seen in his projectBummockwhich presents new methods for accessing archives. 
Militant forms ofArtActivism feature within the team, specifically in the research undertaken by Martin Lang. This can be seen in the publications includingFrom Watts to Wall Street: a Situationist analysis of political violence,Spectacular malaise:artand the end of History, andCounter cultural production: a militant reconfiguration of Peter Brgers Neo-avant-garde.
Ideas of the dialogic are also prevalent. Alice Tuppen combinesartistic, educational and psychological influences to produce co-creative, reflexive and transformational forms of participatory practice-based research. Her work engages all contributors in new forms of relational encounter through digital, performative, sculptural and filmic practices that together generate expansive and sustained multi-modal dialogues.
Within themes of the dialogic,SteveFosseys work is concerned with what he describes as the mechanics of becoming of social. Steves research practice uses performance, drawing, moving image and writing to explore ideas of intimacy, proximity, care and hospitality. He is also concerned with experimental pedagogy, with writing on the subject featured in the bookLeap into Action Companion: Critical Performative Pedagogies inArt& Design Education.


Musical Theatre Research | Research | University of LincolnWelcome
The University of Lincolns Musical Theatre research evidences a broad understanding of the area, embracing Broadway and the West End; new writing in musical theatre; British musical theatre; Queer Theory, and wider understandings of the intersections between music and the stage. Given its inherently interdisciplinary and collaborative approaches in musical theatre, our researchers work frequently with other colleagues in the areas of Drama, Music, and Dance, while engaging in wider projects across the arts and social sciences. These have explored uses of music in performance relating to migration, place, identity, (auto)ethnography, community, psychology, health, and wellbeing.
Staff in the area have produced monographs, journal articles, edited collections, and book chapters, while contributing to community-facing events, projects, and reports. Our approaches also embrace practice-as-research and professional practice, and colleagues in the school have been recognised for their award-winning musical theatre writing.
Meanwhile, we have made leading contributions to the international journal Studies in Musical Theatre, the conference series Song, Stage and Screen, and book series Palgrave Studies in British Musical Theatre and Critical Perspectives in Musical Theatre (OUP), and events with organisations such as Mercury Musical Developments, English National Opera, the Ohio Light Opera Festival, and the Oxford Literary Festival. PhD opportunities in musical theatre embrace both practice-based enquiries and more traditional theoretical study.


Lincoln School of Creative Arts | College of Arts Social Sciences and Humanities | University of LincolnLincoln School of Creative Arts
Learn to Push Boundaries
Welcome
At the Lincoln School of Creative Arts, we aim to provide an educational experience that is intellectually rigorous, practically playful, internationally relevant, and culturally diverse.
Creative Writing,Drama, Dance,Fine Art, Music, Musical Theatre, and Technical Theatre and Stage Management students learn in our purpose-builtLincoln Arts Centre, where facilities include a 450-seat theatre, fully equipped studio rehearsal spaces, and production workshops. As well as being home to our students, the public-facing arts centre hosts comedy, dance, drama, and music performances from national touring companies and artists year-round.
Fine Art students benefit from specialist facilities in the Universitys 11 million Peter De Wint Building, including impressive studio and exhibition spaces, and our technical workshops. Throughout your studies, there are numerous opportunities for you to showcase your work, including our highly regarded end-of-year degree shows.
The School has close links with relevant industries and disciplines, and we are committed to providing professional skills, knowledge, and experiences throughout your studies.
Whichever programme you choose, our practice-led approach and excellent industry links are designed to prepare you for a successful career in your chosen sector.
Professor Andrew WestersideHead of School
Studying Creative Arts
Explore Creative Arts at the University of Lincoln.

Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate courses available in the Lincoln School of Creative Arts.
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Programmes
Take a look at our range of postgraduate taught and research programmes within the Lincoln School of Creative Arts.
Postgraduate Courses
Research
Find out about exciting research taking place in the Lincoln School of Creative Arts.
See Our Research
School Staff
Find staff members within the Lincoln School of Creative Arts.
View School Staff List
Facilities
The School of Creative Arts offers specialist facilities, professional standard equipment and creative spaces for students to develop their skills in preparation for their future career.
Lincoln Arts Centre
Lincoln Arts Centre provides a hub of creative performance where students can learn and practise their art in the 450-seat professional working theatre, large industry-standard studio spaces, and a workshop for building sets and props. 
 The Platform
A 350 capacity versatile music venue with integrated in-house PA system.  
Rehearsal Spaces
Soundproofed practice and rehearsal rooms for music. Mirrored dance studios for professional practice. 
Multi-track Recording Studios
Two multi-track recording studios comprise control rooms and three recording areas including live rooms, dead rooms and a drum isolation booth for music and drama production. 
Audio Production
Six audio edit suites and four radio production studios.
Art and Design
Multi-materials workshops for wood, metal, plaster, plastics, resin, equipment for acrylic resist etching, digital imagery and screen printing, as well as photography, video and animation facilities. 
Project Space Plus
The Universitys open space for exhibition, creative inquiry, experimentation and contemporary thinking. 
Studio Culture
Dedicated studio space and cutting-edge equipment for art students.


Research Impact | Research | University of LincolnWelcome
Researchers across the School of Fine and Performing Arts consider the impact of their work. Two recent case studies centre around the work of Ananda Breed, and of Michael Pinchbeck.

Ananda Breedhas worked both nationally and internationally as an applied performance practitioner and researcher, contributing to several important projects exploring the relationship between participatory art and peacebuilding processes. Serving as Co-Investigator of 2M AHRC GCRF Network Plus Changing the Story: building inclusive societies with and for young people in 5 post conflict countries, Breed implemented a critical review pilot project entitled Mobile Arts for Peace (MAP) working with partners University of Leeds, Rwanda Education Board (REB), and the Institute of Research and Dialogue for Peace (IRDP); alongside five schools in the Eastern Province. This project received 100,000 AHRC GCRF Follow On Impact funding for project Ubwuzu: Shaping the Rwandan National Curriculum through Arts to extend the initial pilot project to the other four provinces (Western, Northern, Southern, Kigali) reaching 25 schools in total (2018-20). In January 2020, Breed was awarded as Principal Investigator of a 2M AHRC GCRF Network Plus project to extend her research and impact to three additional countries including Kyrgyzstan, Indonesia and Nepal. The AHRC GCRF Network Plus project Mobile Arts for Peace: Informing the National Curriculum and Youth Policy for Peacebuilding in Kyrgyzstan, Rwanda, Indonesia, and Nepal (2020-24) included 8 Co-Investigators and 22 partnering organisations.
Find out more aboutMobile Arts for Peace.

Michael Pinchbeckproduced Bolero as part of a practice-as-research enquiry into the dramaturgy of music and conflict. The research proposed that Ravels music was significantly changed due to his experience of World War One. Owing to this context and its subsequent performance histories (ballet, concert, ice dance etc.) parallel research enquiries emerged into post-conflict theatre and commemoration. The research imperative was framed by Ravels instruction to conductors to follow the score and the work biographises the piece of music, Bolero. Using verbatim text, devising techniques and archival research, the body of work advances Rebstock and Roesners Composed Theatre (2013) by using music to structure theatre in both form and content, to propose a post-music theatre. The projects dramaturgy followed Barbas notion of weaving together found and fictional texts about Ravels music to create a biography of the original composition fused with the performers auto-dramaturgy of surviving conflict. A project spanning the UK, Germany and Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bolero created partnerships between the Balkans and the UK and led to youth theatres being set up in Bosnia and Kosovo. The project lasted four years and its impact is still being felt in the Balkan region today.


Postgraduate Programmes | Lincoln School of Creative Arts | University of Lincoln


Postgraduate Research | Research | University of LincolnWelcome
The Lincoln School of Creative Arts is host to a rapidly growing culture of postgraduate research across the disciplines of drama, the performing arts, fine art, music, and musical theatre. By joining our researchers, you join a team of specialists in areas as diverse as intercultural and applied practices in theatre and music; contemporary British playwrights; digital and intermedial practices; contemporary theatre-making in the UK and Europe; theatre and video games; music analysis, composition and curation; musical theatre; ethnomusicology; community-building and cultural sustainability; scenography; Shakespeare in performance; live and performance art; sound art; sexuality and gender studies; and radical activism in art and theatre.
We support interdisciplinary research, drawing on expertisefromthe Schools various disciplines and beyond. In the case of research projects which overlap with expertisefrombeyond the School, we are able to draw on the rich variety of researchfromacross the University in other humanities areas, the sciences, technology, social sciences and beyond, to create a supervisory team that works for you.Expertise in a range of methodologies, including practice-as-research, semiotic and textual analysis, archival research, ethnography, and historiography critically underpins the supervision we provide to our students.
As a postgraduate research student at Lincoln, you become part of the thriving research culture of the School, College and University, with opportunities to take part in events including our regular Critical Encounters series, Arts Talks, the Music Conference, Tower Talks and more.The University of Lincolns Doctoral School provides a range of training and professional development workshops throughout the year, and hosts an annual Postgraduate Research Showcase that provides opportunities to disseminate your research and connect with researchersfromacross the Humanities.
If you would like to find out more about postgraduate research in the Lincoln School of Creative Arts, please get in touch with DrJacquelineBolton.
Postgraduate Study
The Lincoln School of Creative Arts offers a thriving creative community in which to advance your studies to postgraduate level.


Research | University of LincolnIn this section
Research in the Lincoln School of Creative Arts
Lincoln School of Creative Arts has a thrivingresearchculture, organised around its core areas of expertise in contemporary theatre-making, musical theatre, practice asresearch, post-conflict reconciliation, and intercultural performance.
Alongside the independentresearchof individual colleagues, we encourage collaborative, interdisciplinary and public-facingresearchinitiatives. We work extensively with communities both locally and globally, and alongside our archival, ethnographic, and criticalresearchwork, our projects encompass the creative energy of our schools practical profile through performances and exhibitions.
Ourresearchgroups Contemporary Theatre-Making, (Re)constructing Musics and Intercultural Performance, have forged valuable connections with international networks, attracting significant funding fromresearchcouncils and arts organisations. We have hosted numerous conferences, symposia and events, and have a vibrant community of postgraduate students engaged in MA, MRes, MPhil and PhD study.
Research staff work across disciplines both within and outside of the School, but come from the broad disciplines of Drama and Theatre, Fine Art, Music, and Musical Theatre.
Drama and Theatre Research
Music Research
Musical Theatre Research
Fine Art Research
Postgraduate Research
Research Impact


Drama and Theatre Research | Research | University of LincolnWelcome
Drama and Theatre research at the University of Lincoln encompasses a broad range of approaches and methodologies, focussing on key areas of research expertise. Text-based and archival research emphasises the development of contemporary playwriting and theatre-making in the UK and Europe; ethnographic and applied approaches engage with intercultural performance in a number of sites around the world; and practice-based approaches develop structures of knowledge through performance practices intersecting with political, experimental, and dramaturgical themes.
As well as its synergies with other disciplinary areas in our school, such as Music, Dance, Fine Art and Technical Theatre, our core focus in Drama and Theatre also intersects more broadly with the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities and wider University research areas, enabling significant explorations into collaboration, interdisciplinary practice, and communities. Recent outputs from colleagues in the school have included monographs, edited collections, journal articles, guest-edited special issues, book chapters, reports, performances, playtexts, and installations. Research work has impacted on local, regional, national and international constituencies, contributing to developments in other sectors such as education, healthcare, immigration, justice, and the armed forces.
Research colleagues within the school are active participants in national and international research networks; peer reviewing for international journals and publishers; holding editorial positions with journals and book series; and contributing to national and international conversations across their disciplines.


Student Work | University of LincolnIn this section
Student Work
During your time with us youll have opportunities to participate in a variety of productions, collaborate with other departments and external companies, work with academics on research projects and may even perform at national and European festivals.
ll have the chance to join our semi-professional theatre group, The Lincoln Company, and benefit from enhanced opportunities to perform  the highlight of which is our annual performances at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. Currently the Company takes six shows to Edinburgh each year and these often go on to tour in the UK and abroad. The Dance Department also has its own Dance specific Company, the Lincoln Dance Collective which performs at festivals in the UK.", 'Take a look at our most recent performances on our Flickr pageand watch past performances below.


Fine Art | University of LincolnIn this section
Welcome to Fine Art
Art can stir emotions, express complex ideas and provoke questions. Fine Art at Lincoln explores the world of art and curatorial practice, allowing students to experiment with different media and discover their artistic style in a stimulating and supportive environment.
Students have their own studio space and access to a wide range of facilities, which includes state-of-the-art studios, workshops and a public gallery. There is equipment for working with wood, metal, plaster, plastics and resin.
Academics are practising artists who guide and support students through their development and reflective practice, culminating in the Final Year Degree Show, where students exhibit a body of independent work.
Fine Art research
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Courses
Visiting Artists, Writers and Curators
Every year a range of artists or other people involved in the arts are invited to give a lecture and undertake tutorials with students.


Stage Combat | University of LincolnIn this section
The Academy of Performance Combat
The School has been working with the Academy of Performance Combat (APC) for a number of years, most notably on the Second Year Module in Stage Combat, one of the most popular Undergraduate option choices within the School. Andrew Ashenden, a Founding Member of the APC and one of its most experienced Fight Directors, as well as intensive weekend courses at the Schools theatre - the Lincoln Arts Centre.
The aim of an APC course or workshop is to equip actors to employ the skills of Stage Combat in their careers in theatre and film. It is also an excellent physical and mental workout, and the APC welcomes members of the general public who want to try something new, without necessarily wanting to be assessed through examination.


Undergraduate Courses | Lincoln School of Creative Arts | University of Lincoln


Music Research | Research | University of LincolnWelcome
Staff and postgraduate research in music encompasses musicology, ethnomusicology, composition and practice research. Research in these areas often crosses over with disciplinary areas across the arts, humanities, social sciences and STEM, with expertise in musical communities, musical instruments, health and wellbeing, and how music is constructed for a range of purposes and peoples. Staff address research issues that have an impact on wider society, with recent work tackling subjects including music and tourism, the representation of mental health in music, and the role of music in healthcare.
The Music team are engaged in music as practitioner-researchers in performance, composition and direction. Staff have presented work in major festivals including Cambridge Folk Festival, Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival, Womad and Glyndebourne, as well as on the global stage at events including the Stockholm Culture Festival, ISCM World Music Days, and with international ensembles including the Tokyo Symphony Orchestra. Staff are regularly featured in new releases as performers and composers, and presented in concerts, exhibitions and installations.
The team are committed to engaging locally and regionally with their work, with staff regularly leading local community and professional music groups, running events in the Being Human Festival of the Humanities, and organising festivals and performances in the region. Research outputs include composition work funded by Arts Council England, recordings for Oxford University Press Music, articles in international journals, chapters and books for major publishers, and interdisciplinary practice research projects presented in galleries, concert halls and on record. Staff regularly present work at international conferences and in innovative public engagement projects.
Opportunities for doctoral research in music include innovate approaches to practice research in composition and performance, field work and ethnomusicology, music and stage/screen, music in interactive media, musical analysis, musical instrument studies, music and sustainability, and musical temporality. A full range of staff expertise can be seen in our online staff profiles.


Facilities | University of LincolnIn this section
Facilities
The School of Creative Arts offers specialist facilities, professional standard equipment and creative spaces for students to develop their skills in preparation for their future career.


Lincoln Arts Centre
Lincoln Arts Centre provides a hub of creative performance where students can learn and practise their art in the 450-seat professional working theatre, large industry-standard studio spaces, and a workshop for building sets and props.

The Platform
A 350 capacity versatile music venue with integrated in-house PA system.

Rehearsal Spaces
Soundproofed practice and rehearsal rooms for music. Mirrored dance studios for professional practice.


Multi-track Recording Studios
Two multi-track recording studios comprise control rooms and three recording areas including live rooms, dead rooms and a drum isolation booth for music and drama production.

Audio Production
Six audio edit suites and four radio production studios.

Art and Design
Multi-materials workshops for wood, metal, plaster, plastics, resin, equipment for acrylic resist etching, digital imagery and screen printing, as well as photography, video and animation facilities. More details here.


Project Space Plus
The Universitys open space for exhibition, creative inquiry, experimentation and contemporary thinking.

Studio Culture
Dedicated studio space and cutting-edge equipment for art students.


School Staff | Lincoln School of Creative Arts | University of LincolnLincoln School of Creative Arts Staff


