Practice Education 2 | Bespoke Training | University of LincolnEligibility for the PQSW modules
All applicants, with the exception of those for the Best Interests Assessor module, are required to be qualified Social Workers, and have current registration with the Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC).
For the Best Interests Assessor module, applicants should be professionals from one of the following disciplines  social work, nursing, occupational therapy or psychology  and have an undergraduate degree level qualification or above.
Applicants should normally be employed by a service provider (in either Childrens Services or Adult Social Care) or in an education, health or social work related profession.
There is a minimum post-qualifying experience requirement for each module; this is specified for each on their individual module page.
Written Test
Applicants who have not undertaken study at a Postgraduate level before and whose Social Work undergraduate degree is 2:2 or lower, will be required to undertake a short written test. This can be submitted at any point in the application process however must be received by the Professional Development Centre, atcpd@lincoln.ac.uk, by no less than 1 month prior to the start date of the module applied for.
Consolidation of Post-Qualifying Professional Development - written test (PDF)
Practice Education 1 - written test (PDF)
International students
Due to the part-time nature of all these courses and the requirements of the Tier 4 (General) student visa set out by the UK Home Office, we are unfortunately unable to consider applications from international students.
Q: What do I do if I am not sure which course to apply for?
A: In the first instance, please discuss this with your line manager and/or training manager. For advice from the Professional Development Centre, please email your query tocpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: My employer will not fund my place - can I fund it myself?
A: The majority of our applicants are sponsored by their employers; however we do also welcome applications from self-funding students. Please contact the Professional Development Centrefor further information:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: How much are the course fees?
A: The fees are subject to change and dependent on the module studied. Please contact the Professional Development Centrefor further information:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: Is there a deadline for applying for a course?
A: We ask applicants to try to submit their applications more than two weeks ahead of the start date. This gives us time to process applications and confirm places in time. However if applications are received after this point and there are still places available then we will try to consider them. If you are in this position we would advise you to contact the Professional Development Centreatcpd@lincoln.ac.ukso we know to expect your application.
Q: I would like to apply for an individual module rather than the entire MSc Advanced Professional Practice in Social Work. How do I do this?
A: All the individual Post-Qualifying Social Work modules offered are listed under the umbrella of the MSc Social Work Advanced Professional Practice and can be studied as stand-alone modules. To apply please select the MSc in Advanced Professional Practice in Social Work from the drop-down list in the Course Selection section of the online Postgraduate Application form, and include a line in your personal statement indicating which module(s) and cohort you wish your application to be considered for.
Q: I am experiencing difficulties submitting the online application form  what help/advice is available?
A: Applicants are required to complete all sections and subsections of the Postgraduate Application form therefore missing information is the most common reason for being unable to submit it. You can check what information is outstanding by looking at the colour indicator next to each section heading  Green indicates that the section is complete, while Orange or Red show that there is still information to be added. Once you have successfully submitted your application you will receive an automatically-generated email confirmation from our Admissions department.
Q: What do I do if my personal details change i.e. address or email (for a change of name please see below) before I have enrolled with the university?
A: Email your change to the Professional Development Centre:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: What do I do if my personal details change i.e. address or email (for a change of name please see below) after I have enrolled with the university?
A: You can update your student record via ourstudent portal. You will have access to this following enrolment.
Q: I have changed my name since my initial application or enrolment. How do I inform the University of this change?
A: If you are based in Lincoln, please bring some evidence of the change of name e.g. a marriage certificate or legal document to the Student Support Centre and they will be happy to amend your student record. Alternatively please send a copy of your evidence to us, either via email tocpd@lincoln.ac.uk or via post to Professional Development Centre, University of Lincoln, Think Tank  Room 6, Campus Way, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
Q: I need to withdraw my application before the course starts - what do I do?
A: Email the Professional Development Centreasap:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: I cannot attend the first day or a later day on the course timetable, who do I contact?
A: Contact the Professional Development Centre:cpd@lincoln.ac.ukas soon as possible. Most modules will allow you to start if you cannot attend on day one. However the majority of the courses have a minimum attendance expectation of 80% and therefore you are advised to consider this prior to taking up an offer.
Learning and Teaching
There will be a variety of teaching/ learning opportunities, including lectures, workshops, action learning sets, tutorials, and individual, self-directed learning. Guided reading and e-learning materials will be made available. The learning and teaching strategy aims to facilitate students learning through critically appraising the research and other literature, working collaboratively in groups. It will also encourage students to reflect on their own practice and professional development. Individual tutorials are designed to ensure that students are planning their studies, practice and assessment events, enabling them to meet all the learning outcomes.
Assessment
The assessment for this module will be: A reflective and analytical commentary (80%) A podcast presentation (20%) Two direct observations of practice educator skills in practice verified and assessed by an appropriately qualified and experienced Stage 2 Practice Educator (pass/refer)
Course Dates
More information about courses dates for 2021 entry will be published to this page soon. For more information about the programme, please contactcpd@lincoln.ac.uk.

How to Apply
Applications for this course are now closed. If you would like to express your interest for our next cohort, please emailcpd@lincoln.ac.uk.
Fees
700


Privacy Policy | Health and Wellbeing Hub | University of LincolnYour Personal Information
The University of Lincoln collects personal information about you when you register to attend an event, course or contact us about one of our services. We use this information to keep you informed about professional development news, events and programmes which may interest you or other people in your organisation. This notice explains more about how we use your personal information.
We collect contact information about you when you register for an event, course, programme or meet us through a networking event, send us an email, or consult with one of our team. We collect your name, contact number, email, and job role/company position. We will keep a note of any changes you tell us about your contact details.
Keep your details up to date by contacting us at cpd@lincoln.ac.uk or01522 837488.
The College ofHealth and Science is a College of the University of Lincoln. The Professional Development Centre operates as part ofCollege ofHealth and Scienceand its purpose is to provide education, short courses and programmes for professionals who require skills-based training educational - including organisations and individuals. Your information is held by the University of Lincoln.
We collect information about you to tell you about news, events and programmes related to the services offered to you and others in your organisation, as well as any related news from academic research and teaching programmes at the University. We will be relying on your consent as the legal basis for us to provide you with this information. You can stop receiving our promotional emails by following the unsubscribe instructions included in every email we send.
We use your information to send you notices about the course including course material, dates, invitations to events, reminders, etc. in order to deliver the course. If you consent, we will also use this information to tell you about other PDC programmes and events which may be of interest. You can stop receiving our promotional emails by following the unsubscribe instructions included in every email we send.
Those individuals from which we have received their data through interest previously expressed in our services, products and one to one contact with our team we will provide the option to unsubscribe for any future mailings.
The University occasionally uses cookies and other technologies on its website that collect data about you when you use them. Where this occurs further information will be available in a cookies policy. The cookies policy for the University website can be found here: http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/termsconditions.
Health Education England
For those that enrol onto a Health Education England funded short course or programme, with your consent we will share your information to enable Health Education England to provide services and support to you. This information is:
Full name Employers Name Course enrolled onto
Sponsors and employers
If you are being funded to undertake your course by a sponsor or an employer then the University may need to pass your personal data, for example in the form of an invoice, progress report or attendance report to that sponsor or employer, as part of your contract with your sponsor or employer.
Company visits and field trips
Where your course requires you to undertake a visit or attend an event off campus, with another organisation, it will be necessary for the University to share some of your information with that provider.
In exceptional circumstances we may be asked to share your information with police or other investigators if it would prevent or detect crime or safeguard a persons wellbeing. Each instance will be judged on its own merit and any sharing of information will be done within the law. How long we keep your information
For the purposes of our news emails, we will keep your information on file until you tell us to unsubscribe.
If you access additional University services these may keep a record of your contact and will provide you with details of how long they keep your information.
You have a number of rights relating to your personal information. These include:
Access You have the right to request a copy of any personal information we hold about you. If you would like a copy of any of your information please contact the Information Compliance team on the details below. The team will process your request within a month.
Portability
If you have provided information on the basis of your consent or for a contract then you can request a digital copy so you can send it to another organisation. To request a copy please contact the Information Compliance team on the details below. The team will process your request within a month.
Correction If any of the information we hold about you is incorrect or incomplete then please let us know. You have the right to have your information corrected so that we hold accurate records about you.
Erasure This is also known as the right to be forgotten. You can request that your personal information is erased if it is no longer necessary for the University to keep it, or you withdraw consent that you have previously provided, or you object and there is no overriding grounds to keep it or if it is unlawful to continue to keep it.
Restriction You can request that the use of your personal information is limited to storage only and that we use it for no other purpose. This applies where you contest the accuracy of the personal information we hold, or our use of the information is unlawful, or we no longer need the information except in relation to legal claims, or you object to the use of your data and we need to verify whether or not our purpose for keeping it overrides the grounds of your objection.
The Information Compliance team can be contacted by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at: Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
If you object to our use of your personal information then we must stop unless we can demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for continuing. Please contact cpd@lincoln.ac.uk or01522 837488 and explain your objection.
If you have provided your consent for the use of your personal information then you can withdraw this consent at any time by contacting cpd@lincoln.ac.uk or 01522 837488. Alternatively, you can stop receiving our promotional emails by following the unsubscribe instructions included in every email we send.
For general enquiries please call01522 837488 or write to University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS. You can find contact details for individual teams and staff by visiting http://staff.lincoln.ac.uk.
If you have a query about your personal information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
If you feel that we have let you down in relation to your information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can also make complaints directly to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the independent authority upholding information rights for the UK. Their website is ico.org.uk and their telephone helpline number is 0303 123 1113.


Bespoke Training | Health and Wellbeing Hub | University of LincolnExpertly Designed Group Training
Using the expertise within the Health and Wellbeing Hub we can design and deliver group training specific to your needs. We have an established record of working with health and social care organisations and we utilise flexibility in content and duration to meet the needs of your organisation and respond to the diverse needs of different staff groups and individuals. We offer a range of delivery of our training from face to face, blended learning or online distance learning which enables your staff to fit studies around their existing work commitments.
If you are interested in working with us to develop a bespoke training course, or series of courses, please contact us viacpd@lincoln.ac.uk




Consultancy | Health and Wellbeing Hub | University of LincolnConsult our Expert Academics
Case Studies
Supporting the creation and evaluation of a workplace physical activity mentor programme with Lincolnshire Police Force (LPF)
LPF highlighted the physical wellbeing of staff as a priority area and wanted to encourage staff to become more physically active. There was an absence of any formalised national guidance, other than basic fitness requirements for police officers and LPF wished to develop an intervention to address this. Dr Hannah Henderson worked alongside the assigned senior officer, Inspector Rachel Harrison, and created a peer support initiative that would encourage staff to become more active, the Fitness Mentors programme. The programme requires a mentor to meet with the referred colleague and conduct a series of health measures (e.g. blood pressure). The mentors provide tailored support and advice on how to become more active and make recommendations for a 10-week programme. Mentors dedicate at least four hours a week to the role (two hours of which can come from their duty time). Dr Henderson collaborated with Inspector Harrison to write a handbook for the Fitness Mentor programme. The document detailed each stage of the process, from the point of referral, to the 10-week programme and post programme support. The handbook included all associated paperwork that the fitness mentors and participants would be required to complete. As the post of a fitness mentor was an appointed voluntary role, Dr Hendersons expertise was leveraged to establish the skills and personal attributes required of candidates, and she collaborated with two other police staff for the recruitment and interview process.
Dr Henderson and her team have continued their involvement with the project when they were funded by LPF to evaluate the programme; examining how many staff accessed the scheme, what improvements in health were observed, and how effective the overall process was. The Fitness Mentors programme received national recognition, when it was nominated and successfully awarded the Protecting the Workforce award by The National Police Wellbeing Service (NPWS), known as Oscar Kilo, in March 2020. This was an incredible achievement for all involved.

Reducing Injury in the Police and Military
The modern police force is required to carry operational equipment, but to date there has been little consideration of an officers capacity to effectively carry this load. Weight baring (or load carriage) is associated with an increased risk of injury, police populations displaying high injury rates when compared to other occupations.
Academics within the School of Sport and Exercise Science, namely Dr Franky Mulloy, Dr Dan Bishop and Dr Anthony Gorman, embarked on a relationship with Lincolnshire Police to investigate the anecdotal reports of a high injury prevalence. A musculoskeletal injury survey was conducted, using 386 police officers, which identified that a large percentage of lower back (84% of all officers surveyed), neck (76%), and shoulder (66%) issues were prevalent in operational police officers within the last 12-months alone. Links to the operational equipment were identified as potential mechanisms for the long-term injuries.
Building on this work, Dr Franky Mulloy and Prof David Mullineaux established a 3-year Knowledge Transfer Partnership (Innovate UK) with Arktis Ltd. Arktis are a global leader in the design and manufacture of police and military tactical wear, and they provide the majority of the 43 police forces in the UK with tactical vests and equipment. This fully funded project supported more in-depth research with Lincolnshire Police through an industry partner. With a KTP Associate added to the team, Dr Matthew Ellison, 38 police officers were brought into the Motion Capture Hub. The aim of the research was to establish how well tactical vests fit the body during dynamic tasks, and to investigate how best to load operational equipment on the body. Our findings identified where tactical vests could be altered to reduce stress on the smaller neck and back muscles, modifying coordination of the head and torso in running. Through these findings, Arktis tactical vests have now been altered with new prototype vests being tested prior to being released globally. The new designs should reduce the high number of overuse injuries seen in police forces. The partnership is also focusing on military loading to reduce injuries in the field.

Contacts
Psychology
Michelle Smith -MicSmith@lincoln.ac.uk
CPD lead role on the BPS Division of Forensic Psychology Committee.
Simon Durrant -SiDurrant@lincoln.ac.uk
Co-Director of the Lincoln Sleep Research Centre.
https://sleep.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/
Susan Chipchase -SChipchase@lincoln.ac.uk
Consultant on Emotion and Galvanic Skin Response.Dentists emotionsand clinical decision making (Scientific Advisor, P.I. - Helen Chapman)
Prof. Kerstin Meints -kmeints@lincoln.ac.uk
Director of Lincoln Infant and Child Development Lab and Head of Lincoln Education Assistance with Dogs (LEAD@lincoln).
https://lead.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/


Return to Practice (Nursing) | Postgraduate Training and CPD | University of LincolnReturn to Practice (Nursing)
Return to Practice (Nursing) 15 Credits at Level 6
Apply Now
Applications will close on 12 August 2023.
Course Overview
s nurses who are looking to return to work and registration with the NMC.", 'Successful completion of the course will enable the learner to demonstrate achievement of the NMC Standards for Proficiency and programme outcomes for the relevant part of the register. This will deem you eligible to reregister with the NMC.
The short course will support learners to understand the current health and social care context; including exploration of national policy, legislation, and professional expectations that govern contemporary practice. The course will enable learner to reflect upon their professional values and role within modern nursing practice. Students will be expected to reflect upon and critically explore specialist issues and apply their learning, skills, and knowledge to the context of their professional field of practice.
The programme learning outcomes are mapped against the Standards of Proficiency for Registered Nurses (NMC, 2018) Part 1- Standards framework for nursing and midwifery education, Part 2 Standards for student supervision and assessment, and Part 3 Standards for return to practice programmes.
Delivery
The module is based upon a blended-learning approach. This means that the lectures will be delivered asynchronously online so you can watch them at your own leisure, along with live seminar sessions to discuss these further, which will also be online. You will complete face-to-face mandatory skills session to cover any mandatory skills sessions, such as BLS, and manual handling if needed.
Duration
The programme consists of two key elements:
Once you have completed all theoretical elements and completed the PAD, you will be expected to complete an assignment which can be completed while on placement or after completion of placement, however, please note that if completed after placement this may delay board ratification and informing the NMC.
Dates
Applications:Closing Date 12 August 2023
Start Date: w/c 11 September 2023
Placements
We will allocate you to a placement area, which should align as best we can with your previous practice area and location, usually within the Lincolnshire system and in collaboration with our existing practice partners. We are always developing our network of placement providers. Please check in advance with the team if you have any questions about placement locations. You may have to travel to access your placement allocation, so please bear this in mind.
Sometimes we may have placements that may also offer an employment opportunity at the end, and we will make you aware of these opportunities if they arise during the taught element of the programme so you can opt-in.
Once you have been allocated a placement you will need to commit to at least two days per week on a minimum of 8 hour days. You can do twelve hour days and again this will be a minimum of two days per week. You can do 37.5 hours per week on average.
The stipulation for the programme is that you need to complete a minimum of 150 hours placement and up to 450 hours to complete the practice documentation. This is a guide and we would like to discuss how many hours you think you would need.
Assessment
The assessment for this course will be:
Fees and Funding
Health Education England (HEE) pay the fees (to the University and placement) and a bursary to students or 1000 for their place on the course. This is for miscellaneous expenses which you may incur as a result of attending the programme. These can include resources, childcare, or travel costs. Uniform, Occupational Health, and DBS status expenses will be borne by the University of healthcare provider. You can expect to receive your bursary during the six theoretical taught days.
Entry Requirements
An applicant must have previously been on the Nursing Register** and had their registration lapse following a period of three years or more
or
For more information please contact Sean Morton (Programme Leader) at x03smorton@lincoln.ac.uk.
Apply Now
 prior registration status and conditions of re-entry to the Register as part of the application screening process, to ensure that the applicant is able to successfully return to the Register upon completion of the programme.", 'Certain conditions which may have been placed on an applicant from remaining on the register may prevent them entry to the programme. This will be reviewed as part of a Fitness to Proceed process. The successful completion of a Return to Practice programme would only enable an applicant to return to the part of the register they were previously on.


Contract Research and Evaluation | Health and Wellbeing Hub | University of LincolnLaw and Justice
We offer a range of programmes and short courses aimed at professionals working in the criminal justice sector.
The Professional Development Centre are involved in a number of developments with the local police force and the police professional body, the College of Policing. We are particularly pleased to be working on the new Policing Education Qualification Framework.
We have created bespoke programmes for the criminal justice pathway ranging from induction training to a masters in Healthcare in Secure Environments. These courses are specifically tailored to meet the needs of prison and secure hospital healthcare professionals.
Working closely with the Lincoln Law School we recently developed an intensive short course for Chinese lawyers and have further programmes in the pipeline.


Practice Education 1 | Bespoke Training | University of LincolnEligibility for the PQSW modules
All applicants, with the exception of those for the Best Interests Assessor module, are required to be qualified Social Workers, and have current registration with the Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC).
For the Best Interests Assessor module, applicants should be professionals from one of the following disciplines  social work, nursing, occupational therapy or psychology  and have an undergraduate degree level qualification or above.
Applicants should normally be employed by a service provider (in either Childrens Services or Adult Social Care) or in an education, health or social work related profession.
There is a minimum post-qualifying experience requirement for each module; this is specified for each on their individual module page.
Written Test
Applicants who have not undertaken study at a Postgraduate level before and whose Social Work undergraduate degree is 2:2 or lower, will be required to undertake a short written test. This can be submitted at any point in the application process however must be received by the Health and Wellbeing Hub, atcpd@lincoln.ac.uk, by no less than 1 month prior to the start date of the module applied for.
Consolidation of Post-Qualifying Professional Development - written test (PDF)
Practice Education 1 - written test (PDF)
International students
Due to the part-time nature of all these courses and the requirements of the Tier 4 (General) student visa set out by the UK Home Office, we are unfortunately unable to consider applications from international students.
Q: What do I do if I am not sure which course to apply for?
A: In the first instance, please discuss this with your line manager and/or training manager. For advice from the Health and Wellbeing Hub, please email your query tocpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: My employer will not fund my place- can I fund it myself?
A: The majority of our applicants are sponsored by their employers; however we do also welcome applications from self-funding students. Please contact the Health and Wellbeing Hubfor further information:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: How much are the course fees?
A: The fees are subject to change and dependent on the module studied. Please contact the Health and Wellbeing Hubfor further information:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: Is there a deadline for applying for a course?
A: We ask applicants to try to submit their applications more than two weeks ahead of the start date. This gives us time to process applications and confirm places in time. However if applications are received after this point and there are still places available then we will try to consider them. If you are in this position we would advise you to contact the Health and Wellbeing Hubatcpd@lincoln.ac.ukso we know to expect your application.
Q: I would like to apply for an individual module rather than the entire MSc Advanced Professional Practice in Social Work. How do I do this?
A: All the individual Post-Qualifying Social Work modules offered are listed under the umbrella of the MSc Social Work Advanced Professional Practice and can be studied as stand-alone modules. To apply please select the MSc in Advanced Professional Practice in Social Work from the drop-down list in the Course Selection section of the online Postgraduate Application form, and include a line in your personal statement indicating which module(s) and cohort you wish your application to be considered for.
Q: I am experiencing difficulties submitting the online application form  what help/advice is available?
A: Applicants are required to complete all sections and subsections of the Postgraduate Application form therefore missing information is the most common reason for being unable to submit it. You can check what information is outstanding by looking at the colour indicator next to each section heading  Green indicates that the section is complete, while Orange or Red show that there is still information to be added. Once you have successfully submitted your application you will receive an automatically-generated email confirmation from our Admissions department.
Q: What do I do if my personal details change i.e. address or email (for a change of name please see below) before I have enrolled with the university?
A: Email your change to the Health and Wellbeing Hub:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: What do I do if my personal details change i.e. address or email (for a change of name please see below) after I have enrolled with the university?
A: You can update your student record via ourstudent portal. You will have access to this following enrolment.
Q: I have changed my name since my initial application or enrolment. How do I inform the University of this change?
A: If you are based in Lincoln, please bring some evidence of the change of name e.g. a marriage certificate or legal document to the Student Support Centre and they will be happy to amend your student record. Alternatively please send a copy of your evidence to us, either via email tocpd@lincoln.ac.ukor via post to Health and Wellbeing Hub, University of Lincoln, Campus Way, Lincoln, LN6 7TS..
Q: I need to withdraw my application before the course starts- what do I do?
A: Email the Health and Wellbeing Hubasap:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Q: I cannot attend the first day or a later day on the course timetable, who do I contact?
A: Contact the Health and Wellbeing Hub:cpd@lincoln.ac.ukas soon as possible. Most modules will allow you to start if you cannot attend on day one. However the majority of the courses have a minimum attendance expectation of 80% and therefore you are advised to consider this prior to taking up an offer.
Learning and Teaching
There will be a variety of teaching/ learning opportunities, including lectures, workshops, action learning sets, tutorials, and individual, self-directed learning. Students will be supported to engage with the research literature. Individual tutorials aim to ensure that students are planning their studies, practice and assessment events, enabling them to meet all the learning outcomes.
Assessment
The assessment for this module will be: A reflective and analytical commentary of 6000 words on practice education at Stage 1 (100%) One direct observation of practice educator skills in practice verified and assessed by an appropriately qualified and experienced Stage 2 Practice Educator (Pass/refer) Successful completion of practice curriculum (Pass/refer)
How to Apply
Applications for this course are now closed. If you would like to express your interest for our next cohort, please email cpd@lincoln.ac.uk.
Fees
1,400


Health and Wellbeing Hub | College of Health and Science | University of LincolnWelcome
The Health and Wellbeing Huboffers post registration programmes and continuing professional development for qualified practitioners working across the health and social care sector. We have expertise in a broad range of health and wellbeing areas with a portfolio developed over many years. We work closely with employers from a range of public, private and third sector organisations to provide targeted, academic and practice-based courses.
The Health and Wellbeing Hub has a strong track record of delivering courses to meet the continuing professional development requirements of a variety of sectors.
Weoffer a range of short courses and degree programmes designed to enhance key skills, learning, and knowledge, with the aim to help develop professional careers after initial qualification and beyond.
We work across the College of Health and Science, to deliver programmes relevant to current practice, taking into account the important work-life-study balance that professional students need to thrive. We offer a range of services at different levels; these include the opportunity to top-up existing qualifications to degree level, embark on an MSc programme or attain credits from individual modules, which can be used toward a BSc or MSc in the future. Students can undertake study alongside their existing work commitments and use their employment experience to place theories into context.
All modules and short courses are accessible to self-funding and sponsored students, and subject to eligibility. All of our healthcare courses are approved by professional bodies such as the Health and Care Professions Council and the Nursing and Midwifery Council.
Using the expertise within the Health and Wellbeing Hub we can design and deliver group training specific to your needs. We have an established record of working with health and social care organisations and we utilise flexibility in content and duration to meet the needs of your organisation and respond to the diverse needs of different staff groups and individuals. We offer a range of delivery of our training from face to face, blended learning or online distance learning which enables your staff to fit studies around their existing work commitments.
s degrees. Study can be undertaken part time or full time and may be delivered fully on site, blended on site and distance learning or fully distance learning. Our CPD portfolio is designed for health, allied health and social care professionals who are looking to increase or update their knowledge and skills in specific areas or develop broader skill sets in new areas.", 'As well as research training the Health and Wellbeing Hub can support organisations in undertaking projects, such as research and service evaluations or bidding for research funds.
The University of Lincoln are also able to offer a range of consultancy services by our academics and research staff around health and wellbeing, including policy reviews, delivering advice, expert witness services, keynote speakers, curriculum design, workshop facilitation or one-off training events. Consultancy may range from small, one-off projects to larger/ongoing initiatives.
Connect with Us
Contact Us
For more information emailcpd@lincoln.ac.uk or call +44 (0)1533 837725.


Postgraduate Training and CPD | Health and Wellbeing Hub | University of LincolnPostgraduate Training and CPD
Continuing Your Professional Development in Health Professions
s degrees. Study can be undertaken either part time or full time, with a number of delivery methods, including fully on site, fully distance learning, or a blended approach. Ourexciting CPD offersare designed for health, allied health, and social care professionals who are looking to increase or update their knowledge and skills in specific areas or develop broader skill sets in new areas.", 'Undergraduate Courses
top-up' for registered healthcare professionals from a range of backgrounds including nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and radiographers.", 'This is a professionally-orientated programme of study which has been developed as a top-up option following discussions with partners which identified a need for courses which are responsive to both national and local policy that aims to meet the educational needs of the local health professional population.
 Explore BSc (Hons) Professional Practice
Postgraduate Courses
Ourpostgraduate CPD offer is professionally orientated and intended to enable students to progress towards their career goals and develop practice specialisms. These courses are delivered by experienced professionals who have worked in the healthcare industry.
This course is designed to build on existing knowledge, skills, and abilities to help students improve the quality of care delivered to patients. We aim to create graduates who can critically analyse data, utilise problem-solving skills in care settings, and confidently articulate opinions.
 Explore PG Cert Adult Critical Care
The Postgraduate Certificate aims to help leaders develop and implement the skills needed to introduce safe practices and cultures that seek to protect those who are at risk, as well as equip businesses with the processes to protect against allegations, should they occur.
 Explore PG Cert Safeguarding: Leading Safer Organisations
This programme is designed for those seeking to bolster their academic understanding of this developing area of practice. It focuses on taking existing knowledge, skills, and abilities in prehospital care and improve awareness of the interventions, procedures, circumstances, and systems involved in prehospital critical care.
 Explore PG Cert Pre-hospital Critical Care
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice offers registered practitioners a flexible, bespoke, and student-centred programme of study that aims to meet their personal and professional development needs as they progress within their role towards advanced expert practice.
 Explore MSc Advanced Clinical Practice
The MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Apprenticeship) offers registered practitioners a flexible, bespoke, and student-centred programme of study that aims to meet their personal and professional development needs as they progress within their role towards advanced expert practice.
 Explore MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Apprenticeship)
Physiotherapy is a scientific and evidence-based health profession that takes a whole person approach to improving and maintaining wellbeing. Physiotherapists help people affected by injury, illness, or disability, using a range of interventions such as advice, education, exercise, manual therapy, and electrophysical agents.
 Explore MSc Contemporary Physiotherapy Practice
The programme has been designed to provide opportunities for both early career and experienced workers within the health and care sector to explore the complexities of working in contemporary practice in depth. Students will be offered support to extend and enhance their professional knowledge and skills, with a range of modules appealing to those working across the range of providers.
 Explore MSc Integrated Professional Practice
s programme is designed to aid leaders develop and implement skills needed to introduce safe practice and a culture that protects those who are at risk, as well as equip businesses with the processes to protect against allegations, should they occur.", 'Explore MSc Safeguarding: Leading Safer Organisations
Short Courses 
Our short courses are designed to give professionals the opportunity to build their skillsets and competencies in specific areas of interest within healthcare.
Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists
This course enables experienced pharmacists to build on their existing knowledge as experts in medicines and acquire additional skills and competencies, particularly in relation to history taking. 
Assessment and Management of Minor Injuries
The aim of this course is to enable the experienced health care practitioner to develop proficiency in the assessment, treatment, and management of minor injuries and apply this in practice.
Infection Control in Clinical Practice
This course is designed to support health and social care practitioners to explore the proactive prevention, responsive investigation, and appropriate control management of infections. 
A Comprehensive Approach to History Taking and Physical Assessment
The aim of this course is to enable the experienced healthcare practitioner to develop their physical assessment skills and apply this to their own clinical context.
Paediatric Urgent Care
This course aims to further develop healthcare practitioners skills and knowledge in the specific issues around clinical decision-making, organisation, and escalation while working with children.
Return to Practice (Nursing)
s nurses who are looking to return to work and registration with the NMC.", 'Person-centred Cancer Care
This module explores how cancer affects people and their families from a range of perspectives, allowing health and care professionals to increase collaboration and integrated team working.
New Directions in Integrated Health and Social Care
This short course allows you to explore the political and theoretical landscape of global, national and local decision making in policy. 
Evidencing Ongoing Professional Development (15 Credits)
This course examines prior learning from individual study, short courses, and non-accredited learning opportunities as well as conference proceedings, professional reading, and occupational activity.
Evidencing Ongoing Professional Development (30 Credits)
This course examines prior learning from individual study, short courses, and non-accredited learning opportunities as well as conference proceedings, professional reading, and occupational activity.
Negotiated Work-based Learning (15 Credits)
In this short course you choose the focus of your learning, giving you the opportunity to explore subjects that are truly relevant to your personal professional practice. 
Negotiated Work-based Learning (30 Credits)
In this short course you choose the focus of your learning, giving you the opportunity to explore subjects that are truly relevant to your personal professional practice.
Musculoskeletal Assessment, Diagnosis, and Management for First Contact Practice
This course will build on previous musculoskeletal related learning and experience to an advanced level.
Injection Therapy for Musculoskeletal Practice
The course introduces the theory and practice of musculoskeletal injection therapy, including the safety, ethical and legal aspects of practice in the context of the evidence base.
Advanced Musculoskeletal Practice Portfolio 
This course offers registered Health Professionals the opportunity to build on previous musculoskeletal related learning and experience to an advanced level.
Best Interest Assessor 
This course offers registered Health Professionals the opportunity to build on previous musculoskeletal related learning and experience to an advanced level.
Independent/Supplementary Prescriber Programme
This course is designed to provide a sound underpinning knowledge base in relation to pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics, building on students pre-existing knowledge and skills.
Fundamentals in Tissue Viability
This course explores the anatomy, physiology and classification of wounds, helping practitioners to develop their knowledge, skills, and understanding of wound prevention, management, and care.
Proactive Management of Long Term Conditions
This course helps provide practitioners with the knowledge and skills to proactively support the holistic care and treatment of individuals with long term health and social care needs.
Integrated Professional Practice Research Methods
The course supports students in deepening their understanding of qualitative and quantitive research approaches that can be used to address research questions in the health and social care sector. 
Principles of Teaching and Learning in Health Professions Education
The course supports students in deepening their understanding of qualitative and quantitive research approaches that can be used to address research questions in the health and social care sector. 
Contact Us
CPD TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford PoolLincolnLN6 7TS
Email: cpd@lincoln.ac.uk


