International Hub | International College | University of LincolnInternational Student Hub
Supporting You at Lincoln
s why we've brought together a range of information and links to help you get settled.", "Did you miss Welcome Week? In addition to a digital copy of the International Student Handbook, you'll find copies of the welcome week slideson our SharePoint site. You must be logged into your student account in order to access it.", 'International Student Hub SharePoint
Post-Enrolment Activities and Events
Once you are enrolled and have attended the range of helpful events and activities available duringWelcome Week, we'll continue to run events throughout the year to help support you in various aspects of your academic study and social life here at Lincoln.
You can access a timetable of upcoming events below. Check back regularly as we will be updating this with new events as they are confirmed.


Support and Services
In addition to a range of events to help you adjust to studying in the UK, we offer a range of help and support services for both personal and academic matters to help you settle in and make the most of your time at Lincoln.
Academic English and Study Skills Support
Our range of in-sessional courses, workshops, and one-to-one sessions are free and designed to support all international students for whom English is an additional language so that they are better prepared to tackle assignments and complete all tasks that require a high level of linguistic competence. 
In-sessional Support
Libraries and Learning Skills
The Universitys Great Central Warehouse Library is open 24/7 for most of the academic year. It has expert staff on hand to help you navigate resources and support you with academic writing, statistical analysis, and referencing. The library also provides a wide range of practical support, offering drop-ins, workshops, and individual appointments.
Library Support
Learning at Lincoln
Our Learning at Lincoln site is designed to help prepare and support you when joining your course at Lincoln. You can find more about how learning in the UK works, how assessment works, and hear the experiences of our students.
Learning at Lincoln
Student Supportand Wellbeing
At the University of Lincoln, we take great pride in placing our students at the heart of everything we do. We understand that leaving home, starting university, and embarking on your future career is a big step, but at Lincoln, its not one you have to take alone.
Our Student Support Centre is situated at the heart of our Brayford Pool Campus and is the first port of call for helping you to find the support you may need. Our specialist teams offer free, impartial, and confidential advice and information on an array of topics - from fees, funding, and making payments, to housing, visas, and legal issues.
As soon as you have enrolled at the University, you will be able to register with our on-campus Health Centre and you can also seek specialist advice from our Student Wellbeing Centre. The team includes student wellbeing advisors, mental health advisors, and counsellors who can provide advice and guidance in relation to disability, medical conditions, learning differences, and mental health.
Student Services Website
Digital Technologies How To Guides
Our helpful guides can assist you with a range of common IT issues you may face when getting started at university, including multi-factor authentication, passwords, WiFi, and email.
Student Life
Living in a new country can be an amazing experience, but sometimes you need bit bit more help with learning where to go. Here you will find some resources to help you settle into life as a student in Lincoln.
Living in the UK
Our Living in the UK guide can provide useful advice and information to help you plan your finances, both before you start your course at the University of Lincoln and during your studies.
Living in the UK Guide 
IT Requirements & Software Availability
Before purchasing a laptop or software please consult this guide and check what is provided by the University and if specific laptop specifications are suggested for your Programme.
IT Requirements 
Accommodation for International Students
Accommodation Guidance 
Accommodation Support for Current Residents
If you are living in University managed accommodation, our ResLife Team provide you with opportunities to settle in, meet new people and have a great experience throughout the year.
Accommodation Support 
Student Life
Our Student Life blog hosts a range of helpful information and tips to help you settle in, all written by current International students. Read about the experiences of other students here at Lincoln.
Student Life Blog 
Multi-Faith Chaplaincy
The University of Lincoln is proud of its vibrant and diverse multicultural community and recognises the importance that faith, belief, values and spirituality play in the lives of many people.
Multi-Faith Chaplaincy 
Global Experiences
The Global Experiences Team supports all Lincoln International Business School and international students to have a great time at the University of Lincoln, whilst gaining vital intercultural experience and employability skills. Through the Global Experiences Team, we encourage sharing and engaging with cultures from around the world here at the University. Whether you attend a social event, cultural exchange session, or an international trip, you will be making the most of our diverse campus.
Careers Support
Preparing you for your future career in the global graduate jobs market shapes your student experience from the day that you enrol. Alongside our industry-engaged approach to teaching, we have a dedicated, award-winning Careers team to support you throughout your time at Lincoln and beyond You can access a wealth of resources on our Careers and Employability website, including a dedicated Careers Guide for International Students.
Connect With Us on Social Media
Facebook  X  Instagram
Contact Us
International Enquiries Team
International Enquiry Form
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 308108WhatsApp: +44 7868 089210


