Recruitment Journey | Job Opportunities | University of LincolnSupport with Your Application
YourRecruitment Journey
When you have found the perfect job for you, applying is simple. On the job advert, click Apply Online to start your application. Your application needs to be made through our easy online system. A CV/letter of application may not tell us everything we need to know about you, so our application process is designed to capture this.Our applications will collect information such as your work history, relevant experience, and qualifications. This gives you the opportunity to provide details of why you are the best possible candidate for the job.
Our application form automatically saves as you enter your information, and it is simple to move backwards and forwards within the form at any time prior to submission. Help is also available at each stage to guide you complete the form.
Completing Your Application
As part of your application, we will ask you to give us some detailed information about how your experience, training, and qualifications make you an ideal candidate for the job. We call these our supporting statements. When the selection panel are reviewing your application, they will look closely at your supporting statements, and allocate scores to each one  these scores help the panel to decide who will be invited for interview.
When you are writing your supporting statements, think about what you have read in the job advert, job description, and person specification (these are available via a link in the job advert), and how you can link your skills and experience to the requirements of the job. If you are asked to give examples, try and be as specific as possible, and give plenty of detail.
Top Tips
Submitting Your Application
All our job opportunities show a closing date for applications. Each vacancy closes at 23:59 (UK time), so try and be as prepared as possible, and submit your fully completed application as early as you can on the closing date. If you are applying from overseas, think about any time difference that may apply, so you can submit your application in time.
We will send you an acknowledgement email when you have submitted your application and then contact you again when shortlisting has taken place to confirm whether you have been shortlisted for interview. Even if we are not taking your application forward to interview this time, we will still let you know.
If you have any questions or need any help with the application process,please email jobs@lincoln.ac.uk.
Interviews
If you have been invited to interview, congratulations! We think your application is great.
Interviews are an opportunity for us to talk with you about your skills and experience, and for you to find out more about the job and about us as an employer  and that includes talking about all the great benefits we offer and why Lincoln is an amazing place to work.We know that interviews can feel daunting, and you may be nervous, but we want you to have a relaxed and positive experience with us.
If you have told us that we can send you SMS messages (via your user account), you will receive a text message to alert you that you have been selected for interview (and we will send an email confirming this too).
When we have confirmed all the final details with the selection panel, we will send you a more detailed email. This will include everything that you need to know about your interview, including where to go (or if the interview will be held via video call), who will be on the panel, and details of anything that you need to prepare beforehand.
Assessing Your Skills
If you have applied for an academic or research job, we like to ask your referees to give us references prior to your interview, so we really appreciate it if you give us permission to do this.
After your interview, we will let you know the outcome as soon as we can. Even if you are not successful, we will let you know, and you will have the opportunity to have personal feedback from the chair of your interview panel. If you have any questions or need any help prior to your interview,please emailjobs@lincoln.ac.uk.
Next Steps
If you have a recieved a job offer, congratulations again!
The chair of your interview panel will contact you directly to talk to you about the job offer. When you have accepted the job, the chair will let our People Services Team know. We will send you a contractual offer of employment, and then collect the other information required before you join us. This will include your references if we do not already have them, and occupational health information.
As a trusted Home Office sponsor, we have to make sure that all of our new colleagues have the right to work in the UK. If you are a British or Irish citizen, we will tell youabout the documents we need to verify this. If you are not, we will talk with you about other options for verification, including support from our Visas and Immigration Team if you need this.
Once our checks have been completed, we will be able to confirm your start date. It will be great to see you again at Lincoln, and we look forward to working with you.
Frequently Asked Questions
Using an application form ensures that all our applicants provide information in the same format, which helps the selection panel to more easily compare the applications that they receive. A CV/letter of application can be submitted to supplement the information in your application, but it may not tell us everything we need to know about you, so our application process is designed to capture this.
Yes, each job you apply for needs a separate application to be submitted. However, the personal information you complete on your initial application will be saved for you to resubmit or amend to suit subsequent applications. You can only have one pending application open at one time, so if you want to apply for more than one role, please complete and submit your first application, and then start on your next. It is also worth downloading a copy of your completed applications, so that you can refer to them later if you need to.
Once you submit your application, you will receive an email from us confirming receipt.
It is very important that you check and proofread your application form prior to submission, as you will not be able to amend it afterwards. If you need to change your details after submission, please contact us.
Your referee must be able to assess your suitability for the job you are applying for. Your referee should be a manager from your current or most recent employment. If you have just completed full-time education, your course tutor, or other academic staff member, may be familiar with your work and could be selected. It is always worth checking with your referee directly that they are happy to give you a reference. Family members or personal friends should not be named as referees.
If you are shortlisted for an academic or research position, the University will contact your referees prior to interview (if you have given permission).
You will normally hear from us within three weeks of the vacancy closing date if you have been shortlisted for interview. Even if you have not been shortlisted, we will send you an email to confirm this.
The University of Lincoln is an Equal Opportunities employer. The information gathered on the form is used to assist us in monitoring the implementation and effectiveness of our Equal Opportunities policy. The information collected will be stored and processed in accordance with Data Protection Principles for the purpose of preparing anonymised statistical reports. The information will not be made available to the selection panel and will not, therefore, be used in any part of the recruitment decision-making process.
We use a server certificate (also known as a digital certificate) to assure you of our identity and secure sockets layer (SSL) to encrypt data transmissions. You will also need to use Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) to access your user account when you have registered.
My Applications
Advantages of My Applications:
- Submitted applications are automatically saved and are available for printing;
- Once you have submitted your first application, it becomes available to re-use as a basis for future applications, which means that you will not need to re-enter all your information again.
- All information is held securely and cannot be viewed by the shortlisting panel or our People teams until you have submitted your application.
Job opportunities at Lincoln may arise at any time of the year, so you may like to be alerted when we are advertising a particular type of role. There are two ways in which you can register your interest; they are both free, and you can choose whether to subscribe or unsubscribe at any time.
Jobs by E-mail  this service will notify of you any jobs that have been advertised with a particular keyword that you have specified, with the results then being sent to you via email.
RSS - this service enables you to subscribe to automatic updates via your web browser, enabling you to choose whether perhaps to be updated for jobs of a particular type or working in a particular department. (More information on RSS technology can be found here)

If you have forgotten your password, you may reset it by following the password reset procedure. Simply follow these easy steps:
- Proceed to the password reset procedure;
- Enter your email address and click continue. You will then be emailed a link to continue to reset your password;
Reset';", '- If using a public computer (such as in a library or Internet cafe) always log off when youve finished using the site.
Once you have completed the process and successfully reset your password you may log in using your email address and your new password.
To protect your account, follow these guidelines:
- Keep your password to yourself. Anyone who knows your password can access your account. Try not to write down your password;
- Do not use dictionary words, your name, your partners name, your email address, or other personal information that can be easily obtained. You should change your password frequently;
- Avoid using the same password for accounts on different websites.
If your email address is being rejected when you try to register on the website, this is usually because our system has identified that the email address in question already exists. It could be that you have previously successfully registered on our system but have either forgotten or did not realise your registration was successful at the time. If you think this is the case, you will simply need to reset your password to gain access to your account again. Please see the FAQ on what to do if you have forgotten your password.
To access your online account, you will need to supply your email address and password so that the system can authenticate and confirm you are who you say you are, and that you have permission to access the details you will be trying to retrieve. Your email address and password must exactly match the information we hold in our system.
The most common reasons for not being able to log in are an incorrectly entered email address, password, or both. Check to make sure that the information you supplied is correct, and remember that the passwords are case sensitive.
t remember your password, you may follow the procedure for resetting your password.", 'If you still have access to your old email address, you can use your current login information and then change your email address via the My Details option in the My Recruitment screen.
If you have changed your email address and no longer have access to the email address you used to register, please contact us with details of your old and new email address.
If you do not access your account for 12 months, it is automatically deleted. You will receive an email reminder to log in and keep your account active before this happens. If your account is deleted, you will need to re-register and will not have access to the information from your previous account.
If you wish to keep accessing your account and submit applications through it in the future, it is important that you log in and keep the account active, even if you do not want to apply straight away.
If you have any questions that are not covered by our FAQs, or you need any other help,pleaseemail jobs@lincoln.ac.uk.


Job Opportunities | Home | University of LincolnJob Opportunities
Your Future Career at the University of Lincoln
Here at the University of Lincoln, we aim to provide a vibrant community of staff and students, where all ofus can share new knowledge, skills, ideas, and approaches.
We offer a range of exciting career opportunities, with competitive salaries, generous benefits packages, training and development programmes, and health and wellbeing support, givingyou the chance to reach your full potential.
If you can't find a suitable position after viewing our current opportunities, then don't worry. You can sign up to our freeJobs by Emailservice, which will alert you to any vacanciesin the future.
Job Opportunities
Browse our range of current job vacancies for academic, research, administrative, and professional services staff, along with graduate opportunities.
Explore Our Vacancies
Benefits and Wellbeing
We see our colleagues as individuals and we offer a range of benefits, such as a general annual leave allowance, to help enrich your life and support your specific needs during your time with us. 
Learn About Benefits
Career Development
We believe that all staff should be supported to reach their full potential. Whether you are joining a professional services department, or working as an academic or researcher, there are a wide range of career development opportunities at Lincoln.
Development at Lincoln
Living in Lincoln
One of the worlds great historic cities, Lincoln is renowned for its fusion of old and new, seamlessly blending medieval heritage with modern city living. Find out more about what Lincoln has to offer.
Discover Lincoln
Support with Your Application
Applying for jobs at the University of Lincoln is a simple process and we offer you guidance and tips on every step of the recruitment journey in our comprehensive guide.
Read Our Guide
Colleague Voices
Our current members of staff share their stories about working at the University of Lincoln.
Our Colleague Voices
Research at Lincoln
Working with regional, national, and international partners, our academics are engaged in groundbreaking studies that are challenging the status quo. We understand the importance of providing the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and make a tangible difference to the world around us.
Academic Careers at Lincoln
Our online Academic Careers Event gave people the chance to find out more about the University and why so many of our colleagues see us as a great place to work. Attendees were able to discover more about learning and development programmes available for our academics, relocation and immigration support, our research focus and environment.



Living in Lincoln | Job Opportunities | University of LincolnLiving in Lincoln
A Fantastic Place toWork and Live
One of the worlds great historic cities, Lincoln is renowned for its fusion of old and new.Its a wonderful place to live thanks to its affordable housing options, outstanding schools, and wide range of amenities and attractions.
Just a short walk away from our Brayford Pool Campus, youll find restaurants, cafes, and bars that overlook the beautiful marina area, while in the centre of Lincoln, youll be spoilt for choice with the eclectic mix of pubs and entertainment venues that are available. Lincoln also offers a great shopping experience  its high streets and side streets, including the newly developed Cornhill Quarter, are home to a range of independent and boutique stores alongside national brands and chains.
Our Historic City
Step back in time and take a trip up the aptly named Steep Hill, which is the gateway to the Lincolns historic Cathedral Quarter and Bailgate area, where character-filled streets are lined with quirky shops and enticing eateries. The area is home to Lincoln Cathedral, one of Europes most celebrated medieval buildings and finest examples of Gothic architecture, and Lincoln Castle, where you can walk in the footsteps of kings and see one of only four surviving originals of the 1215 Magna Carta.
Living in Lincolnshire
s always plenty to do in one of England's largest counties. Here, our staff share their thoughts on what makes Lincolnshire a great place to live.", '
Getting to Lincoln
Situated in the East Midlands, Lincolns central location allows for quick and easy access to and from London and a number of other major cities, including Nottingham, Sheffield, Leicester, and Hull.
 walk from the University of Lincoln's Brayford Pool Campus.The station is fully accessible for wheelchair users and direct trains to London King's Cross take around two hours.", 'By road Lincoln can be reached via the A1 at Newark (A46) from the South and near Retford (A57) from the North. The city is 40 miles east of Nottingham on the A46 and 40 miles south of the Humber Bridge on the A15.
You can find maps, travel information, and more details on our Getting to Lincolnpage.
Relocating


Academic Recruitment | Job Opportunities | University of LincolnSomewhere to Make an Impact
Simply a Life-changing Opportunity
The University of Lincoln is placed among the top 30 universities in the UK for student satisfaction in the Guardian University Guide 2023. Situated in the heart of a beautiful and historic city, Lincoln is renowned for its fusion of old and new. The winning combination of a bustling city centre and historic Cathedral Quarter, both offering a rich variety of attractions, activities, and amenities, makes Lincoln a fantastic place in which to live and work.
We understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for academic pursuits, whether that is teaching, or undertaking research. Our major investments in new buildings, advanced equipment, and state-of-the-art research facilities help to ensure that we continue to provide a vibrant academic environment for our researchers, and strengthen successful research collaborations with other universities, industry partners, and stakeholders. We strive to offer teaching underpinned by an exciting research culture and we are particularly proud of our Student as Producer initiative for teaching, learning, and engagement.
Now is a truly exciting time to be a part of our vibrant academic community - we hope you can join us.
Apply now
Take a look at our list of current vacancies available. Using the link below, you can select your preferred order to see the opportunities listed within the range of academic categories listed.Browse our vacancies
Discover Lincoln
s top sights and attractions, to exploring the scenic surroundings, you can take a look at the range of activities on offer in our beautiful city.", 'Find out more
Did You Know?
Sign Up for Job Alerts:
Sign up to be the first to hear about our job vacancies.


Learning and Development | Job Opportunities | University of LincolnCareer Development
Reaching Your Full Potential
The University offers a rangeof training and development opportunities, designed to support your skills, knowledge, and behaviours, as well as enhancing your wider career aspirations. Opportunities may include:
Online Training Opportunities
As well as offering in-person training opportunities covering key transferable skills and knowledge sharing, you also have access to a wide range of online learning modules and video tutorials through LinkedIn Learning, which can help you to further develop and strengthen these skills.
Support at Lincoln
Whatever your new role here at the University of Lincoln, be it working in one of our professional services teams, as an academic, or as a researcher, we are here to help you achieve your full potential.
Professional Services
We are committed to developing your skills, knowledge, and behaviours to help build a diverse, inclusive, and high-performing culture, while promoting and supporting staff health and wellbeing.
Staff Development
Teaching and Learning
Whether you are new to teaching, or just new to Lincoln, we can provide you with an overview of key teaching and learning information and signpost you to additional resources and support that you may need.
Read Our Guide
Pursuing Research Excellence
At Lincoln, we understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Research Environment
Please note, some schemes will have a set of criteria/guidance/application process to support prioritising staff and associated budgets.


Benefits and Wellbeing | Job Opportunities | University of LincolnBenefits and Wellbeing
Supporting Our Staff
At the University of Lincoln, we see our colleagues as individuals and we offer a range of benefits to help enrich your life and support your specific needs during your time with us.
We can help you with all aspects of your wellbeing, offering rewards and flexible ways of working that can sit more comfortably alongside your family life and other commitments. We also offer generous annual leave packages, closure days, and parental leave.
Lifestyle
Our lifestyle benefits include:
Celebrating Excellence
We make sure we recognise the exceptional contribution that our staff have made to University successes at our awards celebrations each year and present the specialist teaching excellence awards with honours at our graduation ceremonies. 
Wellbeing
Here at Lincoln, we offer a rangeof health and wellbeing benefits and activities. These include on-site health checks, sports injury clinics, and flu vaccinations. You can also take part in social football, netball, running, and community events such as the Lincoln 10k.
The University provides colleagues with access to a 24/7 Employee Assistance Programme, including specialist phone line support, interactive online sessions, and an app to monitor your own wellbeing at home.
We promote an open culture at Lincoln, prioritising mental health by increasing awareness, encouraging two-way conversations, and highlighting the support available at all stages of your employment. Colleagues can attend stress awareness and emotional intelligence sessions, and also have access to mental health first aiders for instant help and guidance.
Education is at the core of our provision and we encourage our colleagues to develop and grow, whether that is through ouraward-winning Financial Education Programme, neurodiversity awareness sessions, or by learning new skills, such as sign language.
Facilities at Lincoln
Weve invested around 400 million in our Brayford Pool Campus over the last two decades to create the best possible learning and teaching environment. Our buildings feature modern office spaces, scientic laboratories, state-of-the-art clinical suites, workshops, specialist arts studios, a 450-seat theatre, advanced research facilities, and a range of lecture theatres. You also have access to our on-campus sports centre and activity programmes to support your physical and mental health.
One Community
Community is central to the way that we work and support each other here at the University of Lincoln and we encourage connectivity through a range of groups and activities including leisure, environmental, volunteering, and social activities. We also support each other tand bring together new knowledge, skills, and approaches through our One Community values.


