Partnership with UOW Malaysia KDU Penang | University of LincolnWe offer Dual Degree awards in the following subjects:
BA (Hons) Media Production
BA (Hons) Communications and Public Relations
BEng (Hons) Mechatronics
More information
Please use the following links to find more information about the University of Lincoln Schools that offer Dual Degree Awards withUOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College.
School of Computer Science School of Film & Media School of English & Journalism  Lincoln International Business School  School of Engineering

Associate Pro Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln, Dr David Cobham, receiving a gift of a pewter plate from Dr Chong Beng Keok, Vice Chancellor of UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College marking the commencement of the partnership between the two institutions
Senior Staff of UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College and the University of Lincoln at the outset of the new institutional partnership.
Senior managers and faculty ofUOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College and the University of Lincoln working together to develop a suite of dual awards to be offered as part of the new institutional partnership
Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln, Prof Scott Davidson, presents a cut glass engraved gift to Vice Chancellor Dr Chong Beng Keok to mark the signing of the partnership agreement.
u200eSenior Staff ofUOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College and the University of Lincoln at the outset of the new institutional partnership. Pictured left to right are Dr David Cobham (Dean for Global Engagement), Dr Kevin Jacques (College Director of Academic Quality and standards), Mrs Caroline Connell (Deputy Head of Student Administration), Dr Brian Imrie (DVC of UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College), Dr Chong Beng Keok (DVC of UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College), Prof Scott Davidson (Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln).
Dr Kevin Jacques, Deputy Head of the School of Computer Science, delivers a guest lecture to computing students atUOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College.
Dr Kevin Jacques,CollegeDirector of Academic Quality and Standards,delivers a guest lecture to computing students at UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College.
Dr David Cobham, Dean for Global Engagement, delivers a guest lecture to students atUOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College.
Students atUOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College get to grips with the robot arm, developed at the University on Lincoln as part of their studies.
Professor Ian Barnes from the University of Lincoln Business School delivers a public lecture at UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College on the topic Brexit: The UKs exit from the European Union. What are the implications for Malaysia?
The talk was attended by students and staff of UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College and the University of Lincoln as well as local business people and members of the local press. The talk proved very popular and everyone left feeling much better informed about Brexit having been greatly entertained by Prof Barnes amiable and accessible style of delivery. This was the first in a series of Public Lectures brought about by the Dual Degree partnership.
University of Lincoln students and staff visitUOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College to support a summer exchange programme at UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College including attending the UOW Malaysia KDU Penang University College International Student Conference. This visit is the first of what is planned to be a series of student exchanges with students of each University able to attend the programmes or summer schools of the other, often at preferential fees to recognise the growing partnership.


