Postgraduate Programmes | Lincoln Law School | University of Lincoln


Lincoln Law School | College of Arts Social Sciences and Humanities | University of LincolnLincoln Law School
Welcome to Lincoln Law School
Welcome
The Lincoln Law School is home to a vibrant academic community that combines high-quality teaching with outstanding research. We are a u200ccivically-engaged School with strong links to the legal and criminal justice community around Lincoln and beyond.
We believe students work best when they are happy andrelaxed so we foster an informal learning environment that helps tobuild confidence in a friendly, welcoming, and professional atmosphere.Lincoln Law Schoolaims to assist students to develop a detailed understanding of the rules andinstitutions that govern our society, as well as the ability to place the law within its social,political, and commercial context, both nationally, and internationally.
Dr Mike Varney
Head of School

Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate degrees available within the Lincoln Law School.
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Programmes
Take a look at our range of postgraduate taught and research programmes within Lincoln Law School.
Postgraduate Courses
Discover Our Online Programmes
s degrees in Law, designed for busy working professionals to study anytime, anywhere.", 'View Online Programmes
Enhanced Experience
From mooting to mentoring - find out what extra-curricular activities are available to you during your studies.
Enhanced Experiences
School Staff
Find staff members within the Lincoln Law School
View School Staff List
Research
There is lots of exciting research taking place within Lincoln Law School and its research groups. 
See Our Research 
Lincoln Law School Moot Court
The Moot Court is our mock courtroom located on campus. Complete with a judges bench, witness stand, and prosecution and defence solicitors benches, it simulates the environment of a working court room, allowing students to explore the key principles of modern legal practice in a variety of courtroom roles.

I enjoyed the variety of my course. I was taught the basics of a topic during lectures and was then able to expand my knowledge during my personal study and seminars. Course assessment was by a variety of means such as assignments, presentations, and exams, meaning there was something to appeal to all types of students.
Laura Tonge
LLB Law Student
Connect with Us


CONDIS | Research | University of LincolnBringing Together Expertise
Our socio-legal and interdisciplinary group is led by academics with a passion for researching conflict and disaster situations. This research group facilitates interdisciplinary discussion and research within social sciences, life sciences, and the arts across the University of Lincoln and externally.
s mission is to provide research which enhances the mobility and restoration of people, communities, and international organisations in the wake of conflicts and disasters.", '
narrating aerial warfare project' - an interdisciplinary investigation into the official narrative around the UK's involvement in the response to ISIS, considering how language and law are used to cultivate public knowledge of the conflict (Brookman-Byrne).", "'Civilian Casualties from Airstrikes: Counting, Accounting, and Accountability' - an international collaboration, funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, which investigates how civilian casualties are 'seen' by states and international law generally, how they are described or 'framed
Dr Amal Ali
Senior Lecturer in Law
Dr Max Brookman-Byrne
Senior Lecturer in Law
Dr Chloe Gilgan
Lecturer in Law
Dr Ben Hudson
Lecturer in Law (University of Exeter)
Dr James Heydon
Associate Professor in Criminology (University of Nottingham)
Sheraz Ibrahim
PhD Researcher
Prof. Louis Kotze
Senior Professorial Fellow in Earth System Law
Tom Martin
Lecturer, Lincoln School of Film & Media
Dr Bonaventura Majolo
Reader in Psychology
Amber Smith
PhD Researcher
Dr Christy Shucksmith-Wesley
Assistant Professor (University of Nottingham)
Thomas Welch
PhD Researcher
Lincoln Law School Research Groups
Law and Society
This group combines core areas of specialist expertise and research excellence to promote interdisciplinary dialogue and research output.


Research | Lincoln Law School | University of LincolnShaping Law, Policy, Practice, and Education
Working with key stakeholders and practitioners, our research addresses challenges from the global to the local, including responses to environmental change, respect for human rights, and enhancing criminal justice.
Staff in Lincoln Law School play leading roles in research centres, groups and projects.
The Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice
The Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
The Law and Society Research Group
Connect with Us
Connect with Usu200c
Lincoln Law School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Study Abroad | Lincoln Law School | University of LincolnStudy Abroad
The following destinations in Europe are available through the Erasmus+ scheme, which currently offers funding towards costs:
We are alsonegotiating potential agreements with the University of Minnesota, the USA, andthe University ofKwa-Zulu Natal, South Africa, andtheUniversity of Waikato, New Zealand.
More Information
Please check back here regularly for short-term international study opportunities.
Education New Zealand - "Dream NEW" Scholarship
For more information please speak to Dr Amal Ali (details below)


If you would like any further information on the study abroad programme please contact one of the following members of staff: 
Also, please don't forget to visit the University of Lincoln International Office




Visiting Professors | Lincoln Law School | University of LincolnVisiting Professors


Enhanced Experience | Lincoln Law School | University of LincolnEnhanced Experience
More Information
Street Law, together with the Law Clinic, is one of the clinical legal programmes offered by Lincoln Law School.
The aim of this programme is to provide a valuable and accessible legal literacy service to members of the public while at the same time enhancing youreducational experience and employability.
Under this innovative teaching and learning scheme, undergraduate students from Lincoln Law School, supported by their tutors, work with schools and colleges to identify legal concerns. The students then research the relevant material and present their findings to pupils/students in a user-friendly form. Through discussion, role play and other interactive methods, Lincoln Law School students and the community all learn about the law and become more aware of rights and responsibilities in a given area of law.
Street Law provides a unique and engaging way of learning about the law for all participants, promoting reflexive and self-directed learning and practical skills for applying the law.
A moot is a mock appeal usually set in the Court of Appeal or Supreme Court. Students in teams are given a scenario containing two grounds of appeal. They then research the law relating to those areas, construct arguments for their client and argue them as Counsel in a court setting.
Mooting is fantastic for developing several transferable skills. It will improve your research and logical thinking and develop your confidence in public speaking as well as improving your ability to think on your feet.Most importantly, it is fun. You will face two moots as part of your assessments in your first two years. If you enjoy it then you can become involved in our moot teams who enter national and international competitions. These are usually judged by practitioners and judges.
We think mooting is a great way to improve your skills as well as being an impressive addition to your CV whether you wish to practice law or not. We have a purpose built 40 seat Moot Court which is in very regular use.
The Lincoln Law Clinic provides free legal advice to both staff and students of the university.Through the Clinic, law students obtain practical legal experience and are provided with the opportunity to apply their legal knowledge to real life legal problems.
The Clinic is very much a student centred project. Each year about 60 law students become members of the Clinic. The students are divided into a number of different firms usually consisting of a third year student as the Head of Firm and 6 other students.
Students have the opportunity of preparing for and conducting client interviews. Students participate in pre and post interview meetings with Clinic staff and discuss the issues which may arise or have arisen during the course of the interview. Students then carry out post interview research on the particular legal issue or issues concerned and prepare a letter of advice to be issued to the client.
From participating in the Clinic, students have the opportunity to develop skills which would otherwise not be developed until much later on in their legal careers. At the interview stage students have the opportunity to develop their communication skills, their interviewing skills and their note taking skills.
Post interview, students have the opportunity to develop their team working skills, their research skills and letter writing skills. Throughout the process students are made aware of the importance of client care and managing the expectations of not only their client but also those of their other firm members and Clinic staff.
The organisation of client appointments and communication is conducted through the Clinic Administrator, who is usually a third year student who has participated in the Clinic in the previous year.
The Clinic hopes to develop lawyerly skills among law students while encouraging the pro-bono ethos early in their careers.
Keeley Harrison:
"Taking part in the University of Lincoln Law Clinic helps you to develop existing skills and learn new ones, all of which help to prepare you for life in the legal profession. Everyone in the Clinic has the opportunity to take part in a client interview and learn how to draft advice letters. Through taking part in these activities I have developed my communication skills, time management skills and by acting as a Head of Firm I have gained leadership skills. My confidence has improved while working in the Law Clinic because I have learnt that my degree has given me the skills I need to be able to research and apply laws in order to advise clients in the appropriate way, this has helped me feel ready to progress onto the next stage of my career."
Melissa Mould:
"As the Administrator for the Law Clinic, I have met with a variety of clients and expanded my interpersonal skills. My participation has helped me to organise my time and balance my commitment to my studies. The Law Clinic operates in a similar format to that of a typical law firm which has allowed me to develop skills that I can take with me into practice. The student-run service allows hands-on experience in drafting letters of advice for clients. I would recommend getting involved to any student who wishes to see the law in a real life situation."
Masterclasses provide students with an opportunity to gain experience running workshops, encouraging and managing debate among those taking part. Groups of 6th form students visit the university and are given a short lecture on a given topic, which is generally selected as being both topical and controversial in order to provoke debate.
There are a number of questions set for the workshop and these do not focus on the detail but ask students to form an opinion and argue in support of it. Students then manage the debate, ensuring every opinion is heard and valued. This gives our students experience in these sorts of situations as well as an opportunity to be ambassadors for the university, offering advice and answering questions for the students of tomorrow.
The Student as Producer scheme informs teaching and learning across the University of Lincoln, including the Law School, and builds on the idea of research activities lying at the heart of the undergraduate curriculum.
Student as Producer offers undergraduate students more responsibility and practical engagement in their course. First, it involves them in working with staff in the design and delivery of their teaching and learning programmes. Academics still provide the main course content but will also ask what students are interested in learning and how programmes can be designed to fit with their particular interests, thus providing a more holistic learning experience and greater satisfaction with their course.
Student as Producer also involves students in research-engaged teaching by generating knowledge through research or projects to produce work of academic content and value. By involving students in the production of knowledge, Student as Producer enables them to take greater responsibility for their own teaching and learning, providing the opportunity to build on and improve their research and critical skills, which in turn enhances employment prospects and personal development.
Occasionally there are also opportunities for Law students to support academic staff in their research during the summer vacation period.
At Lincoln Law School we recognise the importance of students enhancing their employability during their time with us.
As such, we offer a professional mentoring scheme, which is aimed at creating a supportive relationship between individuals working within the legal profession and Law School students. Students will have the opportunity to apply to take part in the scheme, which will give them the chance to gain insight, knowledge, and experience to help them make a successful transition from university to their chosen career.
Meet Our Students
Lincoln Law School recognises the importance of supporting our students to succeed in their chosen occupations once they graduate. All of our graduates receive a qualifying law degree, which allows them to train as a solicitor or barrister if they wish.
Our students can go on to a variety of careers includingsolicitor,barrister,CILEx, and many other careers.
Moot Court
The Moot court is used byLincoln Law School and is a mock-court environment which students can utilise as part of their studies.
The Moot Court is located in the refurbished Bridge House and features judges bench, witness stand, clerks desk, as well as prosecution and defence solicitors benches to simulate the environment of a working court room. The Moot Court therefore allows students to explore the key principles of modern legal practice in a variety of courtroom roles.
The Moot Court is available as a learning environment for students on the Law, Law and Criminology, Law and Business, Criminology and Criminal Justice, International Business Law, and International Law courses.


Law and Society | Research | University of LincolnWhat We Do
At Lincoln Law School we shape academic debates and inform legal and policy developments using a range of doctrinal, empirical, and theoretical techniques. Our research is connected to enquiry in the wider social and natural science, which allows us to understand and respond to the real-world complexities within which law operates.
We have expertise in a number of areas including company and commercial law, criminal justice, environmental law, human rights, and international law. As the main research group in the school, we run a vibrant research seminar series and host internal research events.
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Lincoln Law School Research Groups
Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice Research Group
The Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice Research Group
The Law And Society Research Group
Connect Online:
Connect with Usu200c
Lincoln Law School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Undergraduate Courses | Lincoln Law School | University of Lincoln


International | University of LincolnIn this section
At Lincoln Law School we understand that international students often have questions or additional concerns when studying abroad. We have a friendly and supportive environment that will integrate you with students from the UK and all over the world.
Our Law programmes are taught by tutors who will work with you in a relaxed and informal environment to maximise your success and enjoyment of study. Throughout your studies you will receive the support and encouragement you need from friendly people who want you to succeed.The degrees are constructed in order to maximise your choice of modules so you can choose to study the areas you are most interested in.
Lincoln is an ideal combination of old and new. It is the home of the Magna Carta, one of the most important ancient documents in the world. It was signed in 1215. We have a medieval castle and cathedral. Indeed our graduation ceremonies take place in the beautiful setting of the Cathedral and involve a procession from inside the Cathedral to the reception in the grounds of the Castle. Lincoln, an important Roman town, is steeped in history. However, Lincoln also has all the modern facilities you would expect in a university city. The Engine Shed is the biggest concert space in the East Midlands and is on the regular concert circuit for all your favourite bands. If you prefer slightly more culture there is the Lincoln Performing Arts Centre which has everything from ballet to stand up comedy. If you like clubbing there are many to choose from or eat out in the numerous restaurants and bars. Lincoln is the ideal combination of the old and new and visitors always remark on the friendly atmosphere where students are welcomed from all over the worldas a vital part of the community.
Make Lincoln your gateway to Europe
Located in the heart of England, and less than two hours by rail to London with its numerous transport links to Europe, Lincoln is one of the worlds historic cities, renowned for its fusion of old and new. The winning combination of a vibrant city centre and a historic cathedral quarter, both with a range of cultural activities and venues, makes Lincoln a fantastic environment in which to live and study. And we're in one of the driest regions of the UK!
Take a look round our City-centre campus
Based in a beautiful waterfront location, the University of Lincolns award-winning city centre campus provides modern facilities to create the best possible learning and social environment for students.
A wide range of quality accommodation
Lincolns centrally-located campus provides student accommodation in the heart of the city. From modern self-catering apartments to traditional halls of residence, the University offers a wide range of accommodation for you to choose from.
Contact the International Office
+44 (0)1522 886040 (During office hours, 8:30am - 5:00pm GMT, Monday - Friday)
Email international@lincoln.ac.uk or use our online enquiry form.


Completed Projects | Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice | University of LincolnCompleted Projects
Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice - Completed Projects

Equality of Access to Pastoral Care for Non-religious Prisoners
Dr Katie Hunts doctoral research was on pastoral care for prisoners, and the direct and indirect religious discrimination that can arise in prison chaplaincy. She conducted a qualitative, empirical study into offenders experiences of grief and the accessibility of support services for religious and non-religious prisoners, analysed through the lens of the Equality Act 2010.
Her PhD was awarded in 2020, and her research findings were published in Bereavement behind bars: Prison and the grieving process (Prison Service Journal, 2021) and Non-religious prisoners unequal access to pastoral care (International Journal of Law in Context, 2022). The full thesis is available through the British Library EThOS.

Just Get on With It: A Qualitative Exploration of the Health and Wellbeing of Prison Operational Managers and Governor Grades
In 2021, a multidisciplinary team of researchers at the University of Lincoln worked with the Prison Governors Association to evaluate the state of their members health and wellbeing, with this being particularly pertinent following the immense pressure experienced during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Based on semi-structured interviews with 63 prison operational managers and Governor grades, the key themes of the research include not feeling valued, impact on mental and physical health, frustration over lack of autonomy and fears for the future; all of which have led some to follow a path to disenchantment. A general overview of the research can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lfrX3iMAtPM.
The project team included Dr Lauren Smith, Rachael Mason, Professor Karen Harrison, Dr Helen Nichols (University of Hull), Dr Gary Saunders (University of Nottingham), and Dr Lauren Hall.

Neighbourhood Policing: Community, Confidence and Legitimacy in a London Borough
s doctoral research looked at how confidence and legitimacy were maintained through the processes of neighbourhood policing. The study, carried out in a single London borough, found that the mechanisms by which neighbourhood policing were originally intended to deliver confidence were still valued, but particularly susceptible to budget cuts. The London system of ward panels could support neighbourhood policing in unexpected (although not entirely unproblematic) ways.", 'Her research concluded that legitimacy and confidence are locally and situationally contingent, as are ideas of fairness and other values; meaning that effective policing must also include a community-driven element; it is not sufficient to decide what it is that policing should achieve and then hope that confidence and legitimacy will follow. Findings were published in Doing the right thing? value conflicts and community policing (Policing and Society, 2022).

Gambling and Crime: An Exploration of Gambling Availability and Culture in an English Prison
Dr Lauren Smith, Professor Amanda Roberts and Steve Sharman (Kings College London) completed research in a Category B male prison to explore the prevalence and nature of gambling in the prison. Key findings included 45 per cent of people reporting gambling in prison, with 30 per cent reporting that gambling was a normal part of prison life.
Pre-prison behaviour, whether type of index offence or prior gambling, had little relationship to in-prison gambling. Frequency of gambling in prison increased with increasing gambling risk category, as indicated by the Problem Gambling Severity Index (PGSI). The most common types of gambling in prison were card/dice games, sports, and ball games, while the most common motives were entertainment, excitement, or sense of challenge and to win prizes, with significant differences in motive between PGSI risk categories. Prison canteen items formed the most common currency gambled. People within the higher PGSI risk category were more likely to have borrowed items from other prisoners. The published articles can be found here: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/cbm.2266.

Surviving, not Living: The Lived Experiences of Crime and Gambling
Commissioned by The Commission on Crime and Gambling Related Harms, led by Lord Goldsmith QC, and published by The Howard League, the research was carried out by Dr Lauren Smith. The report provides detailed accounts from 22 people who had experienced gambling-related harms and who have either had direct contact with the Criminal Justice System or have been affected by it as a family member. The report highlighted a lack of awareness and support throughout all stages of the Criminal Justice System.
The report is the second major project commissioned and forms part of a final report due to be launched in the House of Lords shortly. The report can be accessed here: https://howardleague.org/publications/surviving-not-living-lived-experiences-of-crime-and-gambling/.

Body-worn Video in Policing
Professor Karen Harrison working with Dr Xavier LHoiry (University of Sheffield) and Dr Simone Santorso (University of Sussex) conducted an evaluation of how one Northern Police Force implemented body-worn video (BWV) into its everyday police activities.
While the research found that most officers thought that the inclusion of BWV was positive concerns were raised about issues privacy infringement and the use of BWV footage as a potential tool for supervisory surveillance. A number of unintended consequences of using BWV were also noted.


Consultancies and Collaborations | Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice | University of LincolnConsultancies and Collaborations
Working Together
The Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice has been working on a number of collaborations with a range of crime and justice-related organisations.
The Policing Network
The Policing Network is a partnership between the University of Lincoln and Lincolnshire Police. It was launched in September 2021 and has the following strategic objectives:
1. To work collaboratively across the University and with Lincolnshire Police to identify areas of policing which require challenge-led research.
2. To work collaboratively across the University and with Lincolnshire Police to make applications for funding.
3. To work collaboratively across the University and with Lincolnshire Police to carry out research with impact.
The Network currently hosts four groups (health and wellbeing, communities, digital policing, and reducing reoffending and mental health).
Current funded projects include:
Learning from the experiences of young people within Integrated Offender Management: Integrated Offender Management (IOM) is a partnership approach to reducing offending which provides support to, and management of, people identified as being engaged in offending behaviour which causes damage and harm within the local community. Under the relaunch of IOM in Lincolnshire, a new cohort of people aged 18-25 has been adopted and a scoring tool implemented to determine acceptance into the cohort. This research is an initial study to understand the needs and experiences of young people within the IOM cohort that would subsequently inform further research in the area.
Project Team: Inspector Claire Hime, PC James Bateman, PSO Neil Garnham, Dr Lauren Smith, Ms Rachael Mason, Dr Kaili Zhang, Dr Niko Kargas, Dr Lauren Hall & Professor Todd Hogue.
Automating Policing Functions: This involves two projects, which are based around automating some backend functions to free up officers and staff time spent on administrative tasks. The two projects are: (1) automating the victims survey; (2) automating how crimes are reported, and how online requests for information are dealt with. AS part of this, the team will also evaluate the impact that this automation has had on the quality of service and the time and money that such automation has saved.
Project Team: Dr Joshua Skoczylis , Prof Steve McKay, Dr Kay Ritchie, Dr Mohammed Al-Khafajiy and the Tech Futures team at Lincolnshire Police.
Humanists UK, NI Humanists and Lincolnshire Humanists
After her PhD work identified marginalisation of secular world views in institutional chaplaincies, Dr Katie Hunt has put her research into practice as the university chaplaincys Humanist Advisor. She takes this work into the community as the Chair of Lincolnshire Humanists and a member of the Lincoln InterFaith committee, and collaborates with Humanists UK and NI Humanists on training, activism, and legal reform.
Spark Inside Coaching in Prisons
Professor Karen Harrison, Dr Lauren Smith, Rachael Mason, and Dr Roger Bretherton have been commissioned to conduct an 18-month evaluation of the Spark Inside Prison Staff Life Coaching Programme. The evaluation aims to:
1. Understand the perceived impact of coaching in the experiences of prison staff.
2. Explore commonalities and differences in the areas of life that people chose to address through the coaching.
3. Identify the perceived benefits of coaching, whether they were sustained, and identify any commonalities when sustainment was achieved.
4. Establish whether the participants of the research left or stayed in service and gain an understanding of their motivations.
5. Understand the self-reported impact of coaching upon workplace skills and motivation.
6. Gather recommendations for how the coaching programme could be improved.
Boston Neighbourhood Policing Community Engagement
Dr Carina OReilly is leading an ongoing collaboration with Boston neighbourhoods team. This project is aimed at supporting the Boston teams ability to apply evidence-based strategies to improve their community engagement and other elements of their neighbourhood policing work, using interventions such as hot-spot patrols and community-based problem-solving approaches, as well as continuing existing online engagement methods initiated during COVID.
Lincolnshire Prison Release Housing Protocol: An Initial Review
A team led by Dr Lauren Smith has recently completed a review of the Lincolnshire Prison Release Housing Protocol which aims to reduce homelessness and rough sleeping on release from prison through a co-ordinated approach across Local Housing Authorities, providers of support, HM Prison and Probation Service, and providers of accommodation. The review sought feedback from partners who are signed up to the protocol to establish progress to date, what was working well and what needed to happen moving forward. The findings have been presented to the Task and Finish Group for the protocol and will be shared with the Safer Lincolnshire Partnership and an action plan developed to address the recommendations arising from the report.
Autism and Learning Disabilities
A team led by Professor Niko Kargas, including Rachael Mason, Professor Todd Hogue and Dr Lauren Smith from the LCCJ, has completed a review on behalf of NHS England, Meeting the Needs of Autistic Adults and Adults with Learning Disabilities in Midlands Prisons. Twenty-four prisons across the Midlands took part in the review which comprised staff questionnaires and focus groups with people in prison.


Publications | Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice | University of LincolnPublications
Recent Publications
Best, D, Hamilton, S, Hall, L & Bartels, L (2021) Justice Capital: A Model for Reconciling Structural and Agentic Determinants of Desistance. Probation Journal, 1-18, DOI: 10.1177/02645505211005018
Brooker, C. and Sirdifield, C. (2024). Best practice in working with people with mental health problems on probation. London: Clinks (Available at:https://www.clinks.org/publication/best-practice-working-people-mental-health-problems-probation).
Brooker C., Sirdifield, C., and Parkhouse, T. (2022) Identifying mental illness and monitoring mental health in probation service settings. European Journal of Probation 14(3): 179-203.
Brooker C., and Sirdifield, C. (Eds) (2023) Probation, mental health and criminal justice. Towards equivalence. London: Routledge.
Collinson, B and Hall, L (2021) The Role of Social Mechanisms of Change in Womens Addiction Recovery Trajectories. Drugs: Education, Prevention & Policy, DOI:10.1080/09687637.2021.1929077
Ellis, A (2022) Tick, Tock, Boom! A Critical Forecast on Violence in Post-Pandemic UK. Journal of Contemporary Crime, Harm and Ethics. 2(1), 24-41. https://doi.org/10.19164/jcche.v2i1.1236
Ellis, A Briggs, D Lloyd, A Telford, L (2021) A ticking time bomb of future harm: Lockdown, child abuse and future violence. Abuse: An International Impact Journal. Vol 2, Issue 1, pp. 37-48
Gous, G.,Azoui, M., Kramer, R. S. S., & Harris, A. (2022). The effects of witness mental illness and use of special measures in court on individual mock juror decision-making.Psychology, Crime and Law, 1-34.
Gous, G.,& Wheatcroft, J.M. (2020) Directive leading questions and preparation technique effects on witness accuracy.Sage Open,1-12.
Groenewegen, P., Dirkzwager, A., van Dam, A., Massalimova, D., Sirdifield, C., Smith, L., & EFPC working group on Prison Health (2022). The health of detainees and the role of primary care: Position paper of the European Forum for Primary Care.Primary Healthcare Research & Development,23, e29. https://doi.org/10.1017/S1463423622000184.
Hall, L and Harris, L (2022). The Gendered Weight of Desistance and Understanding the Love of a Good Woman: Desistance Emotional Work. Probation Journal.
Hoiry, X. and Santorso, S., (2021) Exploring the impact of body-worn video on the everyday behaviours of police officers. The Police Journal: Theory, Policy and Practice. ISSN 0032-258X.", 'Harrison, K. and Ryder N. (2022) The Law Relating to Financial Crime in the UK, 3rd edn, Oxford: Routledge.
Harrison, K., Smith, L., Mason, R., Nichols, H., Saunders, G., and Hall, L. (2022) A decency agenda of a different sort: the health and wellbeing of prison governors and operational managers, in M. Leech (ed) The Prisoners Handbook, Section 5, 1184-1187.
Hunt, K (2022) Non-religious prisoners unequal access to pastoral care, International Journal of Law in Context, 18(1) 116-131.
Hunt, K (2021) Bereavement Behind Bars: Prison and the grieving Process, Prison Service Journal, 254, 17-23.
Kramer, R. S. S. &Gous, G.(2020). Eyewitness descriptions without memory: The (f)utility of describing faces.Applied Cognitive Psychology, 34(3), 605-615.
Kramer, R. S., Hardy, S. C., & Ritchie, K. L. (2020). Searching for faces in crowd chokepoint videos. Applied Cognitive Psychology, 34(2), 343-356.
Mason, R., Smith, L., Hall, L., Saunders, G., Harrison, K., and Nichols, H. (2022) Being a maverick: the challenges of prison governor authority, Independent Monitor, November, 10-12.
Mason, R., Smith, M., Onwuegbusi, T. and Roberts, A (2022). New Psychoactive Substances and Violence within a UK Prison Setting. Substance Use and Misuse, 57 (14), 2146-2150.
Nichols, H. (2021). Understanding the Educational Experiences of Imprisoned Men:(Re)education. London: Routledge.
Reilly, C (2022). Doing the right thing? value conflicts and community policing. Policing and Society 33 (1), 1-17.", 'OReilly, C., Agnew-Pauley, W., and Lundrigan, S. (2022) Restoring public confidence through the delivery of improved community policing in Rackhamshire. Safer communities.
Ritchie, K. L., Carragher, D. J., Davis, J. P., Read, K., Jenkins, R. E., Noyes, E., ... & Hancock, P. J. (2024). Face masks and fake masks: the effect of real and superimposed masks on face matching with super-recognisers, typical observers, and algorithms.Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications,9(1), 5.https://doi.org/10.1186/s41235-024-00532-2
Ritchie, K. L., Cartledge, C., Growns, B., Yan, A., Wang, Y., Guo, K., ... & White, D. (2021). Public attitudes towards the use of automatic facial recognition technology in criminal justice systems around the world. PloS one, 16(10), e0258241. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0258241
Sirdifield C., Nichols, H., and Mullen, P. (2022) Probation and COVID-19: Lessons learned to improve health-related practice. Probation Journal 69(2): 216-234.
Sirdifield, C., Parkhouse, T., & Brooker, C. (2024). 'A systematic scoping review of measures of the quality of health and social care for adults in the criminal justice system: Learning for the probation service'. Probation Journal, 0(0). https://doi.org/10.1177/02645505231221228
Sirdifield, C., Parkhouse, T., Brooker, C., & Law, G. (2024). 'Testing and refining an approach to identifying health and social care needs in probation'. Probation Journal,0(0).https://doi.org/10.1177/02645505241232128
Sirdifield, C., Parkhouse, T., Mullen, P & Nadia (Peer Researcher). (2024). 'The characteristics of high-quality health and social care for people on probation: Professional and lived experience perspectives'. Probation Journal, 0(0). https://doi.org/10.1177/02645505231222961
Smith, L.R., Sharman, S., & Roberts, A. (2022). 'Gambling and crime: An exploration of gambling availability and culture in an English prison'. Criminal Behaviour and Mental health, 1-15. https://doi.org/10.1002/cbm.2266.
Smith, L. (2022). Surviving Not Living: Lived Experiences of Crime and Gambling. The Howard League for Penal Reform.
Smith, L., Mason, R., Harrison, K., Nichols, H., Hall, L., and Saunders, G. (2022) Just get on with it: A qualitative exploration of the health and wellbeing of prison operational managers and Governor grades. Project report for the Prison Governors Association.
Smith, M. (2022) The impact on staff of trauma-informed working. In P. Wilmott & L. Jones (Eds.), Trauma-Informed Forensic Practice. Routledge.



Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice | Research | University of LincolnLincoln Centre for Crime and Justice
OurMission
The Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice unites academics and practitioners from a range of disciplines to investigate and improve crime and justice outcomes through research, consultancy, and knowledge exchange. Our research covers four core themes: health and wellbeing; violence and harm; data and technology; and reducing offending.
s key aims and objectives are to investigate a range of areaswith a view to informing responses and improving outcomes related to crime and justice. These include:", 'United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Centre Members
A list of members of the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice.
View List of Members
Publications
Publications by members of the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice.
Read Our Publications
Research Spotlight
The Prison Governors Association tasked a multidisciplinary team to investigate its members health and wellbeing, following the Covid-19 pandemic.
Watch the Video
Our Research
Find out more about some of our current and completed projects, and explore our collaborations with a range of justice-related organisations.
Current Projects
Discover more about some of the current research projects being undertaken by the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice.
Explore Our Projects
Completed Projects
Explore some of the recently completed research projects by members of the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice.
Discover More
Consultancies and Collaborations
The Centre has been working on a number of collaborations with a range of crime and justice-related organisations.
Explore Collaborations
Related Postgraduate Programmes
MA Criminology and Criminal Justice

MSc Forensic Psychology

MA Education

MA Criminology and Criminal Justice

MSc Forensic Psychology

MA Education



Members | Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice | University of LincolnCentre Members
Members
A list of the members of the Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice. The Centre also collaborates with Lincolnshire Police through the University of Lincoln/Lincolnshire Police Policing Network Prison Governors Association.
Professor Karen Harrison
karenharrison@lincoln.ac.uk
Rachael Mason
Deputy Director and Chair of Management Board; Senior Lecturer in Health and Social Care
rmason@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Joshua Skoczylis
jskoczylis@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Coral Sirdifield
csirdifield@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Lauren Smith
laurensmith@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor Todd Hogue
Head of Policing Network; Professor of Forensic Psychology
thogue@lincoln.ac.uk
Paul Bates
pbates@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Ashley Borrett
aborrett@lincoln.ac.uk
Becky Crookes
rcrookes@lincoln.ac.uk
Rachael Dagnall
rdagnall@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Anthony Ellis
Violence and Harm Theme Lead; Senior Lecturer in Criminology
aellis@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Georgina Gous
ggous@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Lauren Hall
lahall@lincoln.ac.uk
Rosemary Holland
rholland@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Katie Hunt
kbmhunt@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor Ros Kane
rkane@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor Bonaventura Majolo
bmajolo@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Hannah Lena Merdian
hmerdian@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Helen Nichols

Dr Carina OReilly
coreilly@lincoln.ac.uk
Rowena Pyott
rpyott@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Kay Ritchie
kritchie@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Rachael Sharpe
Senior Lecturer in Education
rsharpe@lincoln.ac.uk
Michelle Smith
Associate Professor in Psychology
micsmith@lincoln.ac.uk
Mariam Stamatiadi
PhD student Lincoln Law School

Dr Chloe Wilson
Lecturer in Law
chloewilson@lincoln.ac.uk


Current Projects | Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice | University of LincolnCurrent Projects
Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice - Current Projects

Measuring and Improving the Health and Quality of Healthcare for People on Probation: Developing Data Collection and quality Indicators
This project is funded by the NIHR RfPB programme (Grant Reference Number NIHR201091) and led by Dr Coral Sirdifield. It aims to:
a) Improve the measurement, understanding and recording of the health and social care needs of people under probation supervision by introducing a research-informed way of identifying peoples health and social care needs if they have been met. This will provide an accurate picture of needs, and where there may be gaps in service provision to meet them.
b) Develop quality indicators to support health improvement amongst people on probation and to measure and monitor the quality of health and social care that people on probation receive. This will help to ensure that services are commissioned from an evidence-base, and probation staff can support access when needed.
Further information about the project can be found athttps://probationhealth.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/.

HMP Lincoln Whole Prison Approach to Addressing Gambling-related Harms
Dr Lauren Smith and Rachael Mason from the LCCJ are currently working on an evaluation of the whole prison approach adopted by HMP Lincoln to address gambling-related harms amongst prisoners. The prison has implemented staff training, training for peers and specific screening for gambling behaviours, and have developed clear pathways into specialist support for people experiencing gambling-related harms, and their families. The evaluation will comprise a mixed methods approach including staff questionnaires, focus groups with people in prison, and follow up interviews with people who receive support. The project is currently undergoing ethics review and is expected to be completed towards the end of 2024.

The Role of Canteens and Shared Spaces in Police Wellbeing
Dr Carina OReilly is working with colleagues from Liverpool John Moores, the Open University, and the Police Federation to explore the role of canteens and shared spaces in police wellbeing. Severe cuts to police budgets in the last 12 years have seen the sale of much of the police estate, a significant drop in the number of police stations, and the redesign of internal spaces accordingly. This has reportedly led to a significant drop in the number of canteens and rest areas provided for police officers and staff.
Canteens have a symbolic importance in policing, with academic debates over their role in reinforcing police culture. However, some scholars have underlined the importance of canteens and similar spaces to officers who encounter traumatic events, often on a daily basis, and who often find themselves unable to speak openly to non-officers about their experiences. The loss of canteens and other spaces therefore may have a serious detrimental effect on police wellbeing.

Reframing Oral Rape
Dr Katie Hunt is currently researching oral rape law reform, critiquing the Sexual Offences Act 2003 and exploring alternative statutory approaches to assaults involving non-consensual oral penetration. She is engaging with abolitionist theory to evaluate criminalisation as a response to sexual violence, and the capacity of law reform to meet feminist aims generally.

Protecting Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in His Majestys Prison and Probation Service
Professor Karen Harrison, Dr Lauren Smith and Dr Chloe Wilson are currently working with the Prison Governors Association to explore the EDI experiences of prison governors and operational managers working in the UK. The project has four key objectives:
1. To collect data on how prison staff across a range of job roles experience their workplace environment.
2. To explore with participants whether they face discrimination based on the protected characteristics defined in the Equality Act 2010.
3. To assess to what extent participants, feel like they belong or are included at work.
4. If staff feel excluded, to consider what the barriers to inclusion are and what can be done to effect positive change.


School Staff | Lincoln Law School | University of LincolnLincoln Law School Staff


Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice | Research | University of Lincoln"Act as if the house is on fire, because it is."
These words of Swedish activist, Greta Thunberg, sum up the damage that humans are wreaking on the environment. They also serve as a reminder that we urgently need to embed new, or better ways of thinking about the environment in individual and institutional practices if we are to prevent critical planetary boundaries from being breached. Our failure to think and to act will result in catastrophic effects for human and natural systems.
Despite our technological and cultural achievements, we remain (and will always remain) critically dependent on healthy, functioning earth-system and ecosystem processes. The accelerating environmental degradation projected for this century, of which climate change, natural habitat loss, over-exploitation of resources and pollution are major drivers, will likely move many key natural systems beyond their capacity for resilience to the limits where sudden and dramatic regime shifts, perhaps even complete system collapses, will occur.
The implications of these changes are profound, both for the natural world and for the goods and services it provides humanity, not least the impacts on food production and threats to health from pollution and emerging diseases. They are also profound in terms of the social and economic disruption and dislocation that will inevitably follow these changes.
We know that solutions to these challenges are urgently needed. However, our solutions to these problems currently remain embedded within institutions that perpetuate the problem. If we are to change the types of solutions that are adopted we need to improve our understanding of how best to make the necessary changes in human and institutional behaviour at a level and degree that will make a difference. Developing our understanding of how to induce the necessary changes requires new forms of research, with new synergies from interdisciplinary, cross-scale research in law, the natural and social sciences, and the humanities.
The Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice (LinCEJ) will lead and enable creative research that does just that, and will deliver new understandings of the types of changes and governance measures needed to turn the Anthropocene from an era of high risk for society and the environment to one in which the needs of all are met on an equitable basis.
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Our Research
Through our work on portraying ecological justice we interrogate the representation of ecological justice in society and across all disciplines from the arts to the natural sciences.
Understanding Ecological Justice
Our research generates insights into the causes and impacts of Ecological Justice on species and social groups.
Research Activity
Members and Collaborations
A list of the members of the Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice.
Publications
Postgraduate Research
We welcome applications at any time from prospective students wanting to join our thriving postgraduate research community.


Publications | Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice | University of LincolnRepresentative Publications

Prof Richard Barnes  Barnes, Richard and Long, Ronan (2021) Frontiers in International Environmental Law: Oceans and Climate Challenges. Essays in Honour of David Freestone. Brill.
Prof Hugh Byrd -Matthewman, Steve and Byrd, Hugh (2020) From Perfect Green Dream to Total Failure: The Rise and Fall of the District Energy Scheme. New Zealand Sociology, 35 (1). pp. 177-202. ISSN 0112-921X
Dr Carolina Camacho Villa, Camacho Villa, Tania Carolina, Martinez-Cruz, Tania Eulalia, Ramrez-Lpez, Alejandro et al (2021) Mayan Traditional Knowledge on Weather Forecasting: Who Contributes to Whom in Coping With Climate Change? Frontiers in Sustainable Food Systems, 5 . pp. 1-17. ISSN 2571-581X
Dr Jenny Dunn- Dunn, Jenny, Morris, Antony, Grice, Philip and Peach, Will (2020) Effects of seed-rich habitat provision on territory density, home range and breeding performance of European turtle doves. Bird Conservation International . ISSN 0959-2709
Dr SheenaCotter- Ponton, Fleur, Morimoto, Juliano, Robinson, Katie, Kumar, Sheemal S., Cotter, Sheena C., Wilson, Kenneth and Simpson, Stephen J. (2020) Macronutrients modulate survival to infection and immunity in Drosophila. Journal of Animal Ecology, 89 (2). pp. 460-470. ISSN 0021-8790
Dr Cathy Daly- Daly, Cathy, Engel Purcell, Caroline, Donnelly, Jacqui, Chan, Clara, MacDonagh, Michael and Cox, Peter (2020) Climate Change Adaptation Planning for Cultural Heritage, a National Scale Methodology. Journal of Cultural Heritage Management and Sustainable Development . ISSN 2044-1266
Dr AmiraElnokaly- Mohammed, Adham, Elnokaly, Amira and M.Alya, Abdel Monteleb (2020) Empirical investigation to explore potential gains from the amalgamation of Phase Changing Materials (PCMs) and wood shavings. Energy and Built Environment . ISSN 2666-1233
Dr ElisaFrasnelli- Frasnelli, Elisa and Waite, Lydia (2020) Visuo-motor biases in buff-tailed bumblebees (Bombus terrestris). Laterality . ISSN 1357-650X
Professor Matthew Goddard, - Goddard, Mark A., Davies, Zoe G., Guenat, Solne et al (2021) A global horizon scan of the future impacts of robotics and autonomous systems on urban ecosystems. Nature Ecology & Evolution . ISSN 2397-334X.
Dr Iain Gould- Gould, Iain J, Wright, Isobel, Collison, Martin, Ruto, Eric, Bosworth, Gary and Pearson, Simon (2020) The impact of coastal flooding on agriculture: a case study of Lincolnshire, United Kingdom. Land Degradation & Development, 31 (12). pp. 1545-1559. ISSN 1085-3278
Dr Matthew Hannaford - Freeman, et al (2021) Mapping past human land use using archaeological data: A new classification for global land use synthesis and data harmonization. PLoS ONE, 16 (4). e0246662. ISSN 1932-6203
Prof Martin Hingley- Malik, Sheraz Alam and Hingley, Martin (2020) Consumer Demand Information as a Re-Balancing Tool for Power Asymmetry Between Food Retailers and Suppliers. Economia Agro-Alimentare, 22 (3). pp. 1-28. ISSN 1126-1668
Prof Stuart Humphries- Venditti, Chris, Baker, Joanna, Benton, Michael, Meade, Andrew and Humphries, Stuart (2020) 150 million years of sustained increase in pterosaur flight efficiency. Nature . ISSN 0028-0836
Graziella Iossa, - Iossa, Graziella and White, Piran (2021) Improving the dialogue between public health and ecosystem science on antimicrobial resistance. OIKOS . ISSN 1600-0706
Rico Isaacs- Isaacs, Rico and Molnar, Adam (2017) Island in the neoliberal stream: energy security and soft re-nationalisation in Hungary. Journal of Contemporary European Studies, 25 (1). pp. 107-126. ISSN 1478-2804
Prof Charbel Jose ChiappettaJabbour- Jabbour, Charbel Jose Chiappetta, Seuring, Stefan, Lopes de Sousa Jabbour, Ana Beatriz, Jugend, Daniel, De Camargo Fiorini, Paula, Latan, Hengky and Izeppi, Wagner Colucci (2020) Stakeholders, innovative business models for the circular economy and sustainable performance of firms in an emerging economy facing institutional voids. Journal of Environmental Management, 264 . p. 110416. ISSN 0301-4797
Prof Elizabeth A Kirk- L. Eisma-Osorio, E.A. Kirk, and J. Steinberg Albin The Impact of Environmental Law: Stories of the world we want Edward Elgar 2020
Prof LouisKotze- Kotze, Louis (2020) Earth system law for the Anthropocene: rethinking environmental law alongside the Earth system metaphor. Transnational Legal Theory . ISSN 2041-4005
Dr Andrew Kythreotis- Kythreotis, A. P., Howarth, C., Mercer, T. G., Awcock, H., & Jonas, A. E. G. (2021). Re-evaluating the changing geographies of climate activism and the state in the post-climate emergency era in the build-up to COP26.Journal of the British Academy,25, 6993.
Dr Beatriz Lopes de Sousa Jabbour- Furlan Alves, Marcelo Berbone, Lopes de Sousa Jabbour, Ana Beatriz and Barberio Mariano, Enzo (2019) How can we solve the puzzle of strategic climate management and appreciate its long-term effects? Journal of Organizational Change Management, 32 (7). pp. 687-708. ISSN 0953-4814
Dr Gabriel Lopez Porras- Lopez Porras, G., Stringer, L. C. & Quinn, C. H. Building dryland resilience: Three principles to support adaptive water governance. Ecol. Econ. 177, 106770 (2020).
Prof Mark Macklin- Toonen, W.H.J. and Macklin, M.G. (2020) A hydromorphic re-evaluation of the forgotten river civilizations of Central Asia. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences . ISSN 0027-8424
Dr BonaventuraMajolo- Amici, Federica, Caicoya, Alvaro L, Majolo, Bonaventura and Widdig, Anja (2020) Innovation in wild Barbary macaques (Macaca sylvanus). Scientific Reports, 10 . p. 4597. ISSN 2045-2322
Dr LaetitiaMarechal- Waterman, James, Campbell, LAD, Marechal, Laetitia, Pilot, Malgorzata and Majolo, Bonaventura (2020) Effect of human activity on habitat selection in the endangered Barbary macaque. Animal Conservation, 23 (4). pp. 373-385. ISSN 1367-9430
Dr Wayne Martindale- Martindale, Wayne, Choudhary, Sonal and Swainson, Mark (2020) The Impact of Resource and Nutritional Resilience on the Global Food Supply System. sustainability, 12 (2). p. 751. ISSN 2071-1050
Dr TheresaMercer- Kythreotis, Andrew P., Mercer, Theresa G., Jonas, Andrew E. G. and Marsden, Terry K. (2020) Rethinking urban adaptation as a scalar geopolitics of climate governance: climate policy in the devolved territories of the United Kingdom. Territory, Politics, Governance . ISSN 2162-2671
Prof FernandoMontealegre-Zapata- Brito, Vincius, Nunes, Carlos, Resende, Caque, Montealegre-Z, Fernando and Vallejo-Marn, Mario (2020) Biomechanical properties of a buzz-pollinated flower. Royal Society Open Science, 7 (9). p. 201010. ISSN 2054-5703
Dr HarrietMoore- Moore, Harriet E, Rutherfurd, Ian D, Peel, Murray and Horne, Avil (2020) Sub-Prime Water, Low-Security Entitlements and Policy Challenges in Over-Allocated River Basins: the Case of the MurrayDarling Basin. Environmental Management . ISSN 0364-152X
Dr Mark Olweny  Olweny, Mark (2021) Leadership is Critical in Mainstreaming Sustainability in Professional Education. Building and Cities . ISSN 2632-6655
Professor SimonPearson- Martindale, Wayne, Pearson, Simon, Swainson, Mark, Korir, Lilian, Wright, Isobel, Opiyo, Arnold M., Karanja, Benard, Nyalala, Samuel and Kumar, Mahesh (2020) Framing food security and food loss statistics for incisive supply chain improvement and knowledge transfer between Kenyan, Indian and United Kingdom food manufacturers. Emerald Open Research, 2 (12). ISSN 2631-3952
Dr LanQie- Hubau, Wannes, Lewis, Simon, Phillips, Oliver et al (2020) Asynchronous Carbon Sink Saturation in African and Amazonian Tropical Forests. Nature, 579 . pp. 80-87. ISSN 0028-0836
Dr MahfuzurRahman- Rahman, Mahfuzur, Hack-polay, Dieu, Billah, MD Morsaline and Nabi, Noor Un (2020) Bio-based textile processing through the application of enzymes for environmental sustainability. International Journal of Technology Management & Sustainable Development, 19 (1). pp. 87-106. ISSN 14742748
Dr EmilioRossi- Rossi, Emilio and Di Nicolantonio, Massimo (2020) Integrating Human-Centred Design Approach into Sustainable-Oriented 3D Printing Systems. Human-Intelligent Systems Integration, 2 (1). pp. 57-73. ISSN 2524-4876
Dr EricRuto- Korir, Lilian, Rizov, Marian and Ruto, Eric (2020) Food security in Kenya: Insights from a household food demand model. Economic Modelling, 92. pp. 99-108. ISSN 0264-9993
Dr Mark Schuerch- Kiesel, Joshua, Schuerch, Mark, Christie, Elizabeth K., Mller, Iris, Spencer, Tom and Vafeidis, Athanasios T. (2020) Effective design of managed realignment schemes can reduce coastal flood risks. Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science, 242 . p. 106844. ISSN 0272-7714
Dr CarlSoulsbury- Soulsbury, Carl (2020) Temporal patterns of human-fox interactions as revealed from internet searches. Human Dimensions of Wildlife . ISSN 1087-1209
Prof ChrisThomas- Smith, M. W., Willis, T., Alfieri, L., James, W. H. M., Trigg, M. A., Yamazaki, D., Hardy, A. J., Bisselink, B., De Roo, A., Macklin, M. G. and Thomas, C. J. (2020) Incorporating hydrology into climate suitability models changes projections of malaria transmission in Africa. Nature Communications, 11 (1). p. 4353. ISSN 2041-1723
Dr Sandra Varga- Ellen, Goddard L, Varga, Sandra, John, Elizabeth A and Soulsbury, Carl (2020) Evidence for kin recognition in the clonal plant species Glechoma hederacea. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution, 8 . p. 578141. ISSN 2296-701X
Prof Anna Wilkinson- Soulsbury, Carl D., Gray, Helen, Smith, Lauren, Braithwaite, Victoria, Cotter, Sheena, Elwood, Robert, Wilkinson, Anna and Collins, Lisa (2020) THE WELFARE AND ETHICS OF RESEARCH INVOLVING WILD ANIMALS: A PRIMER. Methods in Ecology and Evolution . ISSN 2041-210X
Mrs Isobel Wright- Martindale, Wayne, Pearson, Simon, Swainson, Mark, Korir, Lilian, Wright, Isobel, Opiyo, Arnold M., Karanja, Benard, Nyalala, Samuel and Kumar, Mahesh (2020) Framing food security and food loss statistics for incisive supply chain improvement and knowledge transfer between Kenyan, Indian and United Kingdom food manufacturers. Emerald Open Research, 2 (12). ISSN 2631-3952


Delivering Ecological Justice | Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice | University of LincolnThrough our Delivering Ecological Justice projects we seek to improve the way we interact with our environment. We enable policymakers, practitioners and the wider public to understand the impact of human activity on the environment and to take steps to make environmental activities more sustainable and sensitive to ecological needs. Our research is developed in partnership with research users. We draw upon research within and across the natural and social sciences to provide clear and informative policy relevant advice.
This research is used to:
- Evidence policy change
- Developing the skills and understanding of practitioners
- Shape future social and natural research with a view to enhancing a more just use of our environment

Key projects under this sub-theme include:
Luxor Living Lab  This projects overarching objectives are to facilitate knowledge growth and research capability in Egypt around the use of digital technology in preserving, protecting, and sustaining the tangible and intangible heritage of Luxor. The project aims to protect heritage context to ensure the local culture remains meaningful and memorable for local people.
Community and Ecosystem Ecology -Work within this sub-theme applies rapidly advancing ecological understandings to a range of natural and human modified landscapes to enable better actions that optimise landscape multi functionality, balancing nature conservation and societal demands, to better inform policymakers and practitioners.
Ecological Justice at Sea -This project, led by Professors Barnes and Kirk aims to improve the regulation of the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity and fisheries as well as improving the regulation of activities (particularly land-based activities) which cause pollution of our seas, including plastics pollution; and the human rights of seafarers.
The Production of Normativity (or what causes individuals, companies and states to comply with laws) - This project led by Professor Kirk provides key insights into how to ensure companies and states in particular respond to, for example, calls to greater energy efficiency, calls to reduce pollution, or calls for greater accountability for our actions. The built environment. This work explores issues from urban adaptation to climate change to reducing the environmental impact of buildings and cities, and relationships between the cultural, social and spatial characteristics of built environments and communities and spans research from the School of Architectureto the School of Law and School of Geography.


Postgraduate Research | Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice | University of LincolnAt the Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice, we have an inclusive multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary research ecosystem. Our PGR students are encouraged to collaborate through research events and using our online collaboration systems to develop their formal and informal research networks.
We invite applications from PGR students who wish to research aspects of Ecological Justice and will consider applications focussed on single discipline studies, as well as those focussed on multi, or inter-disciplinary studies addressing Ecological Justice.
Our PhD students are committed to making research breakthroughs and inspiring those around them, and we are committed to helping them achieve their goals. Thats why the University of Lincoln is making a significant investment to provideresearch studentship opportunitiesfor exceptional doctoral candidate.
Sample Past and Present PhD Students and Projects
Ehsan Ahmadian
PhD topic: Impact of Urban Built Form and Urban Density on Building Energy Performance in Different Climates
This thesis establishes a framework to demonstrate the inter-correlation of urban built form and density with building energy performance (energy demand plus PV energy generation) in cities. It also investigates the impact of climate on this correlation by selecting four case studies (London, Singapore, Helsinki and Phoenix) from different climatic conditions. The holistic outcome of this study provides urban energy planning guidelines that can be used by various stakeholders in the built environment to design more sustainable cities.
Research theme  Delivering Ecological Justice

Daniel Akrofi
PhD topic: Plastic Pollution, International Environmental Law and Earth System Governance: Earth System Law as a New Legal Paradigm for Global Plastic Governance
s threshold. With no international agreement in place to manage plastics and current international resolutions inadequate to deal sufficiently with the problem, I employ Earth System Law as a New Legal Paradigm to proffer solutions to Global Plastic Governance.", 'Research themes Understanding Ecological Justice, DeliveringEcological Justice

Shireen Alqadi
PhD topic:Accelerating Sustainable Housing Considering Occupants Health, Wellbeing and Thermal Comfort, the Case of Palestine
Energy security and affordability are among the major challenges facing the Palestinians. While the housing sector is a main energy consumer, the majority of the housing is of low energy efficiency. Before introducing the renewable energy technologies, optimizing the energy consumption is crucial. Meanwhile, very limited research incorporates the users behaviour alongside the physical characteristics of the buildings when examining the consumption of energy. The main goal of this research was to contribute to the development of sustainable housing in Palestine while considering thermal comfort, wellbeing and health of the users. The objectives of this research were to narrow the knowledge gap concerning the thermal performance of residential buildings and the thermal behaviour of the occupants. Another goal was to develop methods for estimating the energy consumption in buildings by integrating the socioeconomic characteristics of the occupants. In addition to critically assess the level of thermal comfort of occupants and develop adaptive models to predict the level of thermal comfort based on that. Finally, to create validated Dynamic Building Energy Simulation (DBES) models for existing case study buildings and integrate the users actual behaviour and thermal comfort preferences in the simulation to optimize the use of energy.
Research theme Delivering Ecological Justice

Prince Bansah
PhD topic: Democratic transition in environmental governance: The integration of community participation practices in mining communities in Ghana
This thesis is anchored on three main sub-themes. It includes democratic transition, community participation and environmental governance. The purpose of this research is to explore the potential of participation practices (e.g., consensus conferences, citizens juries, deliberative forums) to elicit community participation in environmental decision making, with a focus on selected mining communities in Ghana.
Research themes UnderstandingEcological Justice, DeliveringEcological Justice

Jakub L Ciesielczuk
PhD topic: The participation of non-state actors in international environmental regimes governing marine genetic resources
My research focuses on the nature of participation of non-State actors (e.g. intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations) in regimes regulating the utilisation of marine genetic resources (i.e. DNA of marine species). The participation of non-state actors in those regimes is examined in the context of ensuring equity of access to benefits of utilising marine genetic resources.
Research themes Understanding Ecological Justice, DeliveringEcological Justice

Nani T Mangoale
PhD topic: Achieving the Right to Water in South Africa (SA): A socio-legal study on the potential role of Catchment Management Agencies (CMAs) in fostering Decentralised Water Governance
The study has been motivated by the provision of a right to water as a basic right through s.27 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 108 of 1996 and the National Water Act (NWA), 36 of 1998. The hypothesis for the study is that CMAs in the South African context have a potential to achieve a decentralised water governance that can help in the realisation of S.27 of the Constitution (the right to water). The study employs a socio-legal approach to contextualise understanding of law in practice and is supported by empirical data collected from water experts and managers who add their voices to the appraisal of the legal framework.

Sen P Marriot
PhD topic:Non-force enforcement of fisheries: The evolution of legal mechanisms for achieving compliance in national and international fisheries
This work examines the central problem of fishery management: how to ensure compliance with sustainability goals.The study investigates options for developing a new paradigm for resource-user responsibility through no-force compliance, particularly trade-related measures. The outcome propose a legislative framework incorporating the new approach.
Research theme Delivering Ecological Justice

Soseala Saosaoa
PhD topic:Community Education and Its Impact on Environmental Stewardship in Tuvalu
Sosealas doctoral research seeks to assess the effectiveness of formal and non-formal training on environmental stewardship (biodiversity and ecosystem services) and devising and testing appropriate methodology to examine educational interventions on environmental stewardship.
Research theme Delivering Ecological Justice

Olivier N Yambo
PhD thesis title:The Customary Law Status of the Principle of Sustainable Use in the Context of Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction
This Thesis seeks to determine the normative force of the principle of sustainable use when the principle is applied in international environmental treaties regulating human activities in marine areas outside the authority of States.
Research theme Understanding Ecological Justice




Understanding Ecological Justice | Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice | University of LincolnOur Understanding Ecological Justice projects investigate fundamental questions pertaining to the nature of justice in ecosystems, the nature of justice between humans and the ecosystems of which they are part, and between humans per se. In particular, our research generates insights into the causes and effects of Ecological Justice on species, society and groups within society, and develops new understandings of the (in)justice these impacts raise. Our research addresses the implications Ecological Justice has for the origins of core concepts in disciplines as varied as architecture, ecology, geography, law, and photography.
Within the scope of understanding ecological justice we investigate two main areas:
- The nature of ecological justice between humans 
- The nature of ecological justice within ecosystems

Key projects under this sub-theme include:
Earth-systems Law- This project led by Professor Louis Kotz addresses the (re)design of law to ensure respect for all life on earth.
Ecological Justice at Sea -This project led by Professors Barnes and Kirk is designed to develop understandings of how conservation and sustainable use of fisheries and marine genetic resources are addressed in law; how activities causing pollution at seas, such as plastics pollution are regulated; and how human and environmental rights can be used to enhance oceans governance.
Environmental Pollution- This work maps and evaluates the current problems of contamination and identifies emerging contaminants to determine their potential risk to the environment. We also interrogate the international and national laws designed to limit pollutant flows, identifying strengths and weaknesses in the regulatory framework.
Sustainable Ecosystems-Several projects investigate the relationships between organisms and their biotic and abiotic environment to better understand how to make such systems more resilient and sustainable.


Group Members | Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice | University of LincolnLinCEJ Director and Board of Management
Director of LinCEJ Board of Management, Senior Lecturer - Social and Political Geography
Understanding Ecological Justice, DeliveringEcological Justice
akythreotis@lincoln.ac.uk
Chair of LinCEJ Board of Management, Professor in International Law
Understanding Ecological Justice, DeliveringEcological Justice
rbarnes@lincoln.ac.uk
Member LinCEJ Board of Management, Associate Professor and Director of Internationalisation at the Lincoln School of Architecture and the Built Environment
Understanding Ecological Justice, DeliveringEcological Justice
aelnokaly@lincoln.ac.uk
Member LinCEJ Board of Management, Senior Lecturer in Human Geography and Director of Teaching and Learning in the Department of Geography
Understanding Ecological Justice, DeliveringEcological Justice
mhannaford@lincoln.ac.uk
Member LinCEJ Board of Management, Senior Lecturer in Music, Lincoln School of Creative Arts
Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice and Portraying Ecological Justice
jthompsonBell@lincoln.ac.uk
Member LinCEJ Board of Management, Associate Professor of International Relations, School of Social and Political Sciences
Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
alangois@lincoln.ac.uk

Group Members
Senior Lecturer in Health Quality Improvement/Programme Leader
Understanding Ecological Justice
Senior Lecturer/Programme Leader
Portraying Ecological Justice, Understanding Ecological Justice
ebell@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Politics
Understanding Ecological Justice
mbennister@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer/Programme Leader
Portraying Ecological Justice
abracey@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor in Theatre/Programme Leader
Delivering Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
abreed@lincoln.ac.uk
Lecturer in Social and Managerial Technology
Delivering Ecological Justice
ccamachovilla@lincoln.ac.uk
Global Professor in Sustainable Operations and Supply Chain Mgt
Delivering Ecological Justice
cchiappettajabbour@lincoln.ac.uk
Head of School of Design
Portraying Ecological Justice
achick@lincoln.ac.uk
Director of Eleanor Glanville Centre
Understanding Ecological Justice
bcolston@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Understanding Ecological Justice
scotter@lincoln.ac.uk
Lecturer in LIAT (Lincoln Institute for Agri Food Technology)
Understanding Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
scoutts@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
cdaly@lincoln.ac.uk
Research Fellow
Understanding Ecological Justice
jdeville@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Animal Health and Disease
Delivering Ecological Justice
jdunn@lincoln.ac.uk
Associate Professor
Understanding Ecological Justice
peady@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
Delivering Ecological Justice, Understanding Ecological Justice
tflack@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Fine Art/Programme Leader
Portraying Ecological Justice
sfossey@lincoln.ac.uk
Pro Vice Chancellor/Head of College of Social Science
Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
dfrench@lincoln.ac.uk
Lecturer in Law
Delivering Ecological Justice,Understanding Ecological Justice
gfrisso@lincoln.ac.uk
UNESCO Chair on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development
Delivering Ecological Justice
tfuller@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor
Understanding Ecological Justice
mgoddard@lincoln.ac.uk
Associate Professor
Delivering Ecological Justice
agoodman@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Soil Science
Delivering Ecological Justice
igould@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor of Sociology
UnderstandingEcological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
shillyard@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor of Strategic Marketing
Delivering Ecological Justice
mhingley@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor of Evolutionary Biophysics/Director of LIAS
Understanding Ecological Justice
shumphries@lincoln.ac.uk
Lecturer in Zoology
Delivering Ecological Justice
giossa@lincoln.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Politics
Portraying Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
risaacs@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Understanding Ecological Justice
kjames@lincoln.ac.uk,
Pro Vice Chancellor/Head of College of Science
Understanding Ecological Justice
ljohn@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Law
Delivering Ecological Justice
akhoury@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Fine Art
Portraying Ecological Justice
sklee@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Professorial Fellow in Earth System Law
Understanding Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
lkotze@lincoln.ac.uk
Associate Professor in Law
Understanding Ecological Justice,Delivering Ecological Justice
alerouxkemp@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor of Supply Chain Management for Sustainable Development
Delivering Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
blopesdesousajabbour@lincoln.ac.uk
Distinguished Professor of River Systems and Global Change
Delivering Ecological Justice,Understanding Ecological Justice
mmacklin@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Physical Geography/Programme Leader
Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
dmagnone@lincoln.ac.uk
Associate Professor
Understanding Ecological Justice
bmajolo@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Psychology
UnderstandingEcological Justice
lmarechal@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
PortrayingEcological Justice
tmartin@lincoln.ac.uk
Associate Professor Food Insights and Sustainability
Delivering Ecological Justice
wmartindale@lincoln.ac.uk
Associate Professor
Understanding Ecological Justice
nmaycroft@lincoln.ac.uk
Distinguished Professor in Social and Political Sciences
Delivering Ecological Justice, Understanding Ecological Justice
smckay@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor of Sensory Biology
Understanding Ecological Justice
fmontealegrez@lincoln.ac.uk
Lecturer
Delivering Ecological Justice, Understanding Ecological Justice
hamoore@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Portraying Ecological Justice, Understanding Ecological Justice
amorrad@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer/Programme Leader
Understanding Ecological Justice
molweny@lincoln.ac.uk
Director of LIAT/Professor of Agri-Food Technology
Delivering Ecological Justice
spearson@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Understanding Ecological Justice
tpike@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Ecology and Conservation
Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
lqie@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Delivering Ecological Justice
marahman@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor of Health and Social Care
Delivering Ecological Justice,Understanding Ecological Justice
mray@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Product Design
Portraying Ecological Justice, Understanding Ecological Justice
erossi@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Delivering Ecological Justice, Understanding Ecological Justice
mruta@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Delivering Ecological Justice
eruto@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Physical Geography
Understanding Ecological Justice
mschuerch@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer/Programme Leader
Understanding Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
csoulsbury@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Ecology
Understanding Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
istott@lincoln.ac.uk
Royal Society University Research Fellow
Understanding Ecological Justice
gsutton@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor of Musical Theatre
Understanding Ecological Justice,Portraying Ecological Justice
dsymonds@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer
Portraying Ecological Justice
kszynalska@lincoln.ac.uk
Global Professor in Water and Planetary Health
Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
chthomas@lincoln.ac.uk
Lecturer in Law
Understanding Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
avacca@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Crop Science
Understanding Ecological Justice
rvalluru@lincoln.ac.uk
Professor of Animal Cognition
Understanding Ecological Justice, Portraying Ecological Justice
awilkinson@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer/Programme Leader
Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
jwinn@lincoln.ac.uk
Senior Lecturer in Agriculture (LIAT)
DeliveringEcological Justice
iwright@lincoln.ac.uk

Visiting Fellows and Researchers
Visiting Senior Fellow, Understanding Ecological Justice, Delivering Ecological Justice
Collaborations
DIRE
Lincoln Climate Commission


Portraying Ecological Justice | Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice | University of LincolnThrough our work on portraying ecological justice we interrogate the representation of ecological justice in society and across all disciplines from the arts to the natural sciences. In so doing, our work highlights the way in which the representations of ecological justice impact on understandings of justice and on its delivery. We show how current representations of ecological justice marginalise the interests of some sectors of society and species while prioritising others. We explore the potential for alternative portrayals of ecological justice, for new partnerships and for new methods of creating representations of ecological justice to provide new insights into the delivery of ecological justice.
Within the scope of the portraying ecological justice we investigate two main areas:
- Story telling, including visual story telling in ecological justice
- Research Communication of ecological justice, including outreach and education

Key projects under this sub-theme include:
The Mobile Arts for Peace- Aproject led by Professor Ananda Breed which, while focused on using the arts to help transition countries to peace, also draws out the relationship of communities and the ecosystems of which they are part.
The Interactive Storytelling for Ecological Justice - A project led by Dr Conohar Scott examines how photography and AR can be used to bring about greater awareness of ecological justice struggles in communities affected by industrial pollution.
Conservation of cultural heritage- Prevents the loss of culture, identity, community, and spense of place. This work includes vulnerability assessments and adaptation planning which spans intangibles as well as objects and buildings and landscapes  The loss of culture is a loss of identity, community, sense of place.
Engagement with civil society and the public in climate politics and education- Led by Dr Andrew Kythreotis and Dr Theresa Mercer, this examines whether, and in what form, a new civil politics of climate change is emerging from recent populist climate events in the UK and around the world, such as school climate strikes and declarations of a climate emergency and what role education institutions (schools, universities and colleges) can play in augmenting government policy


Law Mediation Service | Lincoln Law School | University of LincolnMediation Service
Our trained mediators can help you to explore all outcomes in relation to your civil dispute to achieve a resolution quickly and effectively.
We will facilitate negotiation between the parties, and act impartially to assist the parties to communicate, express their opinions and needs and reach an agreement that both parties can move forward with.
A flexible, cost effective process
Mediation is a flexible process and can achieve outcomes that would not be possible using the traditional court route. It is cost effective and has a high success rate. Many mediations are settled the same day.
We can assist you to decide on the costs (usually shared 50/50 between the parties), draw up an agenda of issues to resolve and we can draft a contract to cover the agreed terms. This will be a legally binding contract or will constitute an order if proceedings have already been commenced.
The mediation can take place on campus at the University of Lincoln or at a different venue chosen with the agreement of the other party. Or it can take place online.
Meet the Team
Mrs Sarah Sandy
Sarah has practiced in property law since 2003 and has expertise in development and landlord and tenant matters, and is a CMC trained and accredited mediator.
Mrs Sara Checkley
Sara is a qualified CMC accredited mediator and Consumer Law Specialist, with over 30 years experience specialising in Consumer Law and Civil Litigation issues. Consumer law covers a wide range of topics including: holidays, credit and debt, insurance, utility bills, unfair trading, online sales and faulty goods.
Mr Louis Harman
Senior Lecturer in Law/Programme Leader. Louis is a CMC trained and accredited mediator.
Dr Richard Hedlund
Richard is a CMC accredited mediator. He has experience in matters relating to inheritance/probate disputes, property & trusts disputes, and medical disputes.
Mrs Nnenne Uzoigwe
Lecturer in Law, and a CMC trained and accredited mediator.
Mr Simon McCaffrey
Senior Lecturer and CMC trained and accredited mediator.
What type of disputes do we deal with?
We can assist with a range of disputes including:
Boundary issues, Neighbour disputes, Landlord and Tenant matters, Property, Consumer, Corporate or partnership issues, Personal injury/medical negligence, Slander/defamation/privacy, Small claims, Human rights, Public sector, Financial services/banking, Disability discrimination, Most matters other than family and crime.
Service Rates
In order to give parties to a dispute of a value under 50,000 the option to employ a mediator at a reasonable rate, we have adopted the Fixed Fee Mediation Scheme. The fees for this service are set out below. there is a presumption that mediation of 2 hours or less will be done by telephone/video. Both parties will need to agree to mediate and it is helpful to have agreed on this before you approach a mediator.
One hour  telephone/video mediation only
Two hours  telephone/video mediation only
Additional hours are charged at 100+VAT per party
*Please note that if you have a dispute of less than 10,000 you may be offered a free one hour telephone mediation service by the Court once you have issued a claim form. You may also be offered mediation by the Court for claims above 10,000. There will be a cost to issue a claim form. If you are a consumer and your dispute concerns the sale of goods and services the trader is required to provide you with the name and website address of an approved Alternative Dispute Resolution body.
**Refreshments, any travel and venue fees will be additional costs and will be quoted on a case by case basis.
Please contact us for a bespoke quote for a higher value or non monetary value mediation.
For a free, no obligation discussion.
Contact us
Please call +44 (0)1522 835166, or email
Code of Conduct, and Complaints Procedure
Our trained staff operate under the European Code of Conduct for Mediators.
Please get in contact if you are not happy with any part of the service you receive from us or if you want to make a complaint and we will do our best to put things right. Law School Mediation Service Complaints Procedure


