Urs Hauenstein | University of LincolnIn this section
Urs Hauenstein is the Volunteer President of the International Council of Leadership, Governance, Entrepreneurship and Management (ICLGEM), the Association of Swiss Quality Competencies and Qualifications (SQCQ), the Institute of Competencies and Qualifications in Switzerland and the International Network for Accreditation, Recognition and Dissemination in UK (INARD). In these functions he serves as well as Distinguished Visiting Professor in different Colleges / Universities in Eastern Europe and UK.
He supports the Leeds Beckett University / Centre of Governance, Leadership and Global Responsibility as Honorary Fellow in research, networking and fundraising/marketing and theGlobethics.netin Geneva as Senior Fellow within the field of Global Ethics Chairs, profiling / branding / marketing and fundraising, quality management and accreditation.
He has been a keynote and master-class speaker at various international summits and conferences. He acts as a Goodwill Ambassador for Internationalisation and TV moderator/editor for live shows at the organisation Business Days and the Central and Eastern European Entrepreneurship Summits and for the International Council.
As Senior Consultant, Lead Adviser, Auditor/Assessor, Counsellor and Facilitator, he has been guiding manufacturers and industry groups, companies, associations, organisations as well as professional, administrative and political bodies internationally in different expertise areas: Business Management, Operations Management, Effectiveness and Optimization (Priorities, Performance and Value Management), Multi-Channel-Marketing, HRM, Internationalisation, Future Education and Pedagogy fur sustainable learning, Change and Transformation Management, QM and Accreditation and Ethics & Responsive and Responsible Leadership, Governance and Entrepreneurship.
Urs initiated the research projects Management21, Incubator21, Accelerator21, Priorities and has authored or co-authored more than 70 original articles, review papers, case reports, book chapters/books in German and English.
The Lincoln International Business School is breaking new important ground, which is also being respected internationally. Obviously the particularly human interaction with the staff and the students provides an ideal basis for an authentic, ethical business school. An interactive and dynamic open and mutable transformative education and development towards sustainability and resilience helps build a better future - LIBS obviously does this. I am proud to be part of this and to support and develop for a unique international network.



Responsible Management Research Group | Research | University of LincolnWhat Are We Doing?
Our research focus is responsible management. Our aim is to contribute new knowledge in ways that improve understanding of responsible management as a concept and as practice. Our empirical research takes place in multiple contexts. We aim to influence the contribution that leaders, managers, and organisations make to global challenges, such as those described in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals post-2015.
Why Is It Important?
Every management judgement and every management action taken in the institutions of business, enterprise, public organisations, NGOs, and markets can have local and global effects on all peoples lives. The reflexive anticipation of such effects can enhance leadership, management, and public policy; lead to responsible innovation, create value, and improve lives
How Are We Different?
Our work extends beyond the boundaries of Corporate Social Responsibility. Our multi-disciplinary research teams grapple with exploring the possibility of anticipating consequences in a responsible way. We examine critically the complexities of inter-relations between stakeholders; developing theoretical insights and frameworks to see reality differently, to improve practice and to explore alternative futures. Our combined areas include ethical behaviour, critical management, governance, human rights, responsible innovation, socio-economic challenges to economic development, humanitarian services, and futures research.
Group Researchers
Mr David Anderson, Senior Lecturer
Dr Andy Brookes, Senior Lecturer
Ms Pippa Denny-Gelder, Lecturer
Dr Jane Deville, Research Fellow
Prof Ted Fuller, Professor of Entrepreneurship and Strategic Foresight
Muhammad Khan, Lecturer
Dr John Mendy, Senior Lecturer
Dr Shrabani Saha, Senior Lecturer
Dr Rebecca Herron, Reader
Dr Claire May, Senior Lecturer
Ms Zoraida Mendiwelso-Bendek, Senior Research Fellow in Citizenship
Dr Eric Ruto, Senior Lecturer
Prof Steve Armstrong, Professor in Organisational Behaviour
Prof Matthijs Bal, Professor of Responsible Management
Dr Andrea Caputo, Associate Professor in Strategy and Entrepreneurship
Prof Charbel Jose Chiappetta Jabbour,Global Professor in Sustainable Operations & Supply Chain Management
Dr Dieu Hack-Polay, Associate Professor
Prof Martin Hingley, Professor of Strategic Marketing
Dr Paul Igwe, Senior Lecturer in Strategy and Enterprise
Dr Ana Beatriz Lopes de Sousa Jabbour, Professor of Supply Chain Management for Sustainable Development
Dr Giacomo Marzi, Lecturer in Strategy and Enterprise
Miss Liz Price, Senior Research Fellow
Dr Mahfuzur Rahman, Senior Lecturer
Prof Marian Rizov, Professor of Economics
Gamariel Rugara, Lecturer and PhD Student
Judith John, PhD Student
Luke Corner, PhD Student
ProfDeborah Lock, Visiting Professor
Research at Lincoln International Business School
Community Organisation Research Group
The group researches community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks and community groups, focusing on community-based research in Active Citizenship, Wellbeing and Community Development.
Responsible Management Research Group
The group's research focus is responsible management. Its aim is to contribute new knowledge in ways that improve understanding of responsible management as a concept and as practice.
Visitor Economy Research Group
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) concentrates on projects in the areas of tourism, events and leisure.
Marketing Research Group
The Marketing Research Group (MaRG) collates and develops the research calibre of a group of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are contributing to a wide range of marketing-related studies. These include marketing strategies, consumption, consumer culture, consumer behaviour, communications, advertising, digital and social media, brand management, entrepreneurial marketing and consumer technology.
Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group
The group has a growing track record of social and economic development research, including locally, nationally, and internationally funded projects aimed at investigating the role of innovation and entrepreneurship in the developments of regions.
PhD Opportunities
Lincoln International Business School welcomes applications from students wanting to pursue research study at the postgraduate level, offering a range of opportunities to undertake business-related research.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


PhD Applications | Research | University of LincolnHow to Apply for PhD Study in Business
We welcome applications from those wishing to pursue research study at Lincoln International Business School. This page offers some guidelines to applicants - please read through this information in conjunction to the MPhil/PhD course information. 
LIBS Research Groups
Before submitting your application we recommend that you take a look at the research groups that sit within Lincoln International Business School, as all research should fit into at least one of these groups.
You should indicate in your application how your proposed research specifically aligns to the interests of a named research group.
Guidelines for Research Degree Proposals
When applying for the MPhil/PhD programme at the University of Lincoln, a research proposal will be an essential part of your application. It will be used to assess both the academic potential of your proposed research and our ability to supervise and support you to a successful completion. The purpose of this document is to guide you in writing a research proposal. We are looking for approximately 3,000-5,000 word research proposal.
What is a Research Proposal
A research proposal sets out:
How to Write a Research Proposal
Evaluate the context of your ideas; read widely and relevantly to make sure that your proposal has originality, will add knowledge to the field and builds on existing literature. Then structure your writing as follows:
Context: set the context of your research and explain what you will research, why the research is of value and how you propose to go about it. You also need to demonstrate that your proposed research has a significant contribution to existing bodies of literature. That is, it should explain clearly how your research will either fill a gap, develop, complete or follow on from previous research.
Aim(s) and objectives: outline what you are seeking to achieve. This should provide a clear framework for undertaking the research, so be clear and concise; you cannot cover everything on the topic within a PhD project so be specific about what you are seeking to explore. Typically an overarching aim and up to 5 objectives works well, and then use these to justify the major approaches you will take.
Research questions: This follows from your aims and objectives. Explain the questions you want your research to address. This may include hypotheses you want to test.
Literature review: summarise current literature in your proposed area of research to determine the relevance and value of your research. Importantly, you need to make your contribution clear by demonstrating your knowledge of the literature on your topic and how your research would contribute to it. It is through the literature review that you lay the foundations for your research questions, by critically evaluating what has already been done, how it could be improved, where the gaps are, or what the new frontiers are that your research will address.
Methodology: given your aims and research questions/objectives, consider your research approach (including your theoretical/conceptual framework), your main research design (e.g. qualitative, quantitative or mixed methods) and the most appropriate research methods for achieving them. Explain why the proposed research method(s) are the most appropriate methodology to effectively address your research questions/objectives. This includes a justification of the methodology by explaining what alternatives have been considered and why these have been disregarded.
Plan:outline the main stages of your research and how you would assess progress throughout the duration of the project. This may be supported by a project plan with indicative milestones presented in the form of a Gantt chart. In project planning, the scheduling of individual activities is typically worked backwards from the deadline. Of course, some tasks have to be carried out consecutively but other tasks can be carried out concurrently.
Outcomes:describe what you hope to discover at the end of your research and what new areas it might open up. This can prove difficult as you cannot know the research findings prior to completion, but there needs to be a range of possible outcomes or contribution to knowledge.
References:include a list all literature sources cited in the proposal using Harvard style of referencing.

Additional Tips
Make the Contribution Clear
This cannot be stressed enough. You need to demonstrate your knowledge of current literature on your topic and how your research would contribute to it. What would your research add to current literature and what would make a unique contribution to research on the topic? To do this, you need to draw on relevant research (not everything ever written on the topic but key articles/texts) and demonstrate critical reflection on this work and how your own study would add to it.
Have a Good, Specific Title
Be sure to include important key words that relate to your research and make sure your title goes beyond just describing the topic. It should give a clear indication of your approach and research questions.
Define a Clear Aim and Your Objectives
This should provide you with a clear framework for undertaking the research, so be clear and concise. You cannot cover everything on the topic within a PhD so be specific about what you are seeking to explore. Typically an overarching aim and 3  5 objectives works well, and then use these to justify the major approaches you will take, in terms of concepts, theory, empirical approach etc.
Have a Strong Research Design and Methodology
Of course, MPhil/ PhD study often evolves as a result of developing the literature review, but having a clear method at the start will help you and potential supervisors determine the viability of your research. Set out in clear terms your overall approach (e.g. will it be mainly qualitative, quantitative or mixed methods research, does it involve primary data collection and if so, what methods will you use?). Justify your approach by engaging in literature on the pros and cons of your specific methodological choices so that you can, for example, justify why survey data might be appropriate, or in-depth interviews are the best approach, or indeed a combination of different methods. Also include a clear timeline for completing these tasks along with the other elements of your PhD (literature review, analysis, writing up etc.). A well-developed methodology section is crucial, so include how you will get the data you require and techniques regarding analysis and a rationale for these choices.
Don't Produce a Proposal for 'Mass Consumption'
If you are applying to multiple institutions make sure you understand and tailor your proposal to the relevant research being undertaken there. Research the University and department you are applying to, its staff and the research they are undertaking related to your topic. Readers can easily spot if a proposal has been produced for mass consumption.
Avoid Plagiarism
This one should be obvious. Make sure that all of your work is your own, written in your own words. You need to ensure that the literature review and the way the contribution is defined and developed, as well as all other elements, are correctly cited using appropriate references and that they are written by you. If not, your application will not succeed.
Let Your Passion for the Topic Shine Through
By constructing a clear and well written proposal, your interest in the topic should be clear. Demonstrate your interest in the topic and what the study aims to achieve  this may include contributions to theory, but might also have practical applications such as recommendations for policy and/or practice.
EU and International Students
EU and International students will require English Language IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in each element, or equivalent. For further information please visit theEnglish requirements page.
Contact Us
Please contact us by email at libspgr@lincoln.ac.uk if you have any further questions before completing an application.


Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group  | Research | University of LincolnWhat Are We Doing?
The Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group has a growing track record of social and economic development research. This includes locally, nationally, and internationally funded projects aimed at investigating the role of innovation and entrepreneurship in the developments of regions. The group includes national and international collaborations to advise on future approaches to delivering local, regional, and international policies.
We are researching businesses and wider economic development in different spatial contexts. This extends from policy evaluations and regional economic analysis through to individual and organisational dynamics that foster entrepreneurship and innovation.
Why Is It important?
Supporting the economic development of regions can provide better opportunities for the businesses and communities living there. Understanding more about the importance of innovation and entrepreneurship for the growth can inform new approaches to supporting their development trajectories.
How Are We different?
We rely and build up from our diversity and multidisciplinarity to foster integration among research methods and background to create impact in the society. With a representation from all departments of the Business School, our research group includes expertise coming from the fields of economics, management, regional development and geography, marketing, organisational psychology, sociology, finance, and many others. This wide spectrum of expertise allows us to tackle several issues related to the different aspects of regional innovation and enterprise.
Group Researchers
Dr Agnieszka Rydzik, Senior Lecturer
Dr Andrea Caputo, Reader
Dr Dragana Radicic, Senior Lecturer in Economics
Dr Eric Ruto, Senior Lecturer
Dr Giacomo Marzi, Senior Lecturer
Mrs Mahdieh Zeinali, Lecturer
Prof Matthijs Bal, Professor of Responsible Management
Dr Paul Igwe, Senior Lecturer
Dr Shrabani Saha, Senior Lecturer
Prof Steve Armstrong, Professor in Organisational Behaviour
Prof Ted Fuller, Professor of Entrepreneurship and Strategic Foresight
Mrs Victoria Ellis-Vowles, Senior Lecturer
Prof Charbel Jose Chiappetta Jabbour, Global Professor in Sustainable Operations & Supply Chain Mgt
Dr Ana Beatriz Lopes de Sousa Jabbour, Professor of Supply Chain Management for Sustainable Development
Dr David Gray, Associate Professor
Dr Rebecca Herron, Associate Professor
Prof Martin Hingley, Professor of Strategic Marketing
Dr Arman Mazhikeyev, Lecturer in Economics
Dr Mahfuzur Rahman, Senior Lecturer
Prof Marian Rizov, Professor of Economics

Prof David Charles, Visiting Professor
Dr Gary Bosworth,VisitingProfessor
Miss Liz Price, Senior Research Fellow
Fiona Ashmore, Research Assistant
Aekachai Khuenmanee, PhD Student
Dannuo Zhu, PhD Student
Mahdieh Zeinali, PhD Student
Research at Lincoln International Business School
Community Organisation Research Group
The group researches community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks and community groups, focusing on community-based research in Active Citizenship, Wellbeing and Community Development.
Responsible Management Research Group
The group's research focus is responsible management. Its aim is to contribute new knowledge in ways that improve understanding of responsible management as a concept and as practice.
Visitor Economy Research Group
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) concentrates on projects in the areas of tourism, events and leisure.
Marketing Research Group
The Marketing Research Group (MaRG) collates and develops the research calibre of a group of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are contributing to a wide range of marketing-related studies. These include marketing strategies, consumption, consumer culture, consumer behaviour, communications, advertising, digital and social media, brand management, entrepreneurial marketing and consumer technology.
Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group
The group has a growing track record of social and economic development research, including locally, nationally, and internationally funded projects aimed at investigating the role of innovation and entrepreneurship in the developments of regions.
PhD Opportunities
Lincoln International Business School welcomes applications from students wanting to pursue research study at the postgraduate level, offering a range of opportunities to undertake business-related research.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Simon Beardsley | University of LincolnIn this section
Simon Beardsley is Chief Executive of the Lincolnshire Chamber of Commerce; a leading business representation and support organisation in the county, promoting the interests of member businesses, connecting and contributing in partnership towards a prosperous regional economy making a difference to its members.
His current position directly involves him supporting a number of key local business support organisations (including the Growth Hub, Greater Lincolnshire LEP, University of Lincoln, Bishops Grosseteste University) as well as organisations with a social and cooperative ethos, such as Community Assets Plus and the Co-operative Development Agency. Simon is also a director of the East Midlands International Trade Association.
Mr Beardsley has a long history of supporting the setup and development of sector based groups that allow businesses and the public sector to come together to build and deliver coordinated activity that might not happen without such structures being in place. To date successful examples include collaboration in town management, Business Improvement Districts, the visitor economy, place marketing, the food sector and international trade.
Simon has a previous career in commercial banking where he gained sector expertise in the agriculture, horticulture, property and construction as well as supporting businesses to trade internationally. During this time he became an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.



Visitor Economy Research Group | Research | University of LincolnWhoWe Are
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) harnesses the research energies of a number of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are working in the areas of tourism, mobilities, hospitality, heritage, events, and leisure.
Through our research activities, VERG provides insight into and deepens understanding of the visitor economy in diverse contexts, both locally and internationally, and from a range of perspectives and multi-disciplinary approaches.
Our members come from different research areas with interests in destination management, branding and place making; culture and heritage management; tourism marketing; migration, equality and social justice; tourism and hospitality labour; sustainability and social entrepreneurship; events management, consumer culture and consumer behaviour.
We run a number of undergraduate programmes (BA International Tourism Management, BSc Events Management and BA Sports Business Management) as well as postgraduate programmes (MSc International Tourism Management,MA Culture and Heritage Management, MSc Events Management, MSc International Sports Business Management).
If you are interested in joining us and/or exploring research collaboration opportunities, please get in touch with Dr. Agnieszka Rydzik atarydzik@lincoln.ac.uk.
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Our Research
Out of War Experiences, Hope for the Future (WE-Hope)
Funded by Creative Europe and running 2019-2022, this project aims to promote social inclusion in Europe. University of Lincoln is leading the project, with five partners and three associate partners. We are collecting oral testimony for an online archive which will form the inspiration for the creation of a commissioned art installation, acting as a focus for celebrating inclusion. (Project Lead: Prof Heather Hughes)
The International Bomber Command Centre Digital Archive
The IBCC Digital Archive is a substantial repository on the bombing war in Europe between 1939-1945, which is curated and managed within the Department of Tourism, Languages and Marketing. It is connected with Lincolns newest heritage attraction, the International Bomber Command Centre. The Archive team has a strong interest in the interpretation of difficult heritage and led the development of the exhibition at the IBCC. (Project Lead: Prof Heather Hughes)
Heritage at Risk and Wellbeing
Funded by Historic England, this is a project to understand the impact on volunteers with their involvement in heritage at risk projects by conducting interviews and surveys across ten sites in England. We will develop a toolkit to understand the nature of wellbeing impacts and how Historic England can enhance the benefits to volunteers. (Project Lead: Prof Heather Hughes)
Migration, Inter-Connectivity and Regional Development Network (MICaRD)
Funded by the Regional Studies Association (RSA) and led by Dr. Agnieszka Rydzik, MICaRD brings together scholars, policymakers and practitioners across Europe to provide a forum for debating current and emerging issues on European economic migration, foster collaboration and expand research opportunities.
Inclusive Boston (2018-2020)
Funded by the UK government, this project aimed to promote social cohesion and inclusion in Boston communities. The project involved various stakeholders, including Lincolnshire Community and Volunteer Service, Boston Borough Council, community leaders and policymakers. (Dr. Agnieszka Rydzik and Liz Price)
Lincoln Christmas Market Project
This ongoing project involves conducting research for the Lincoln City Council on visitor satisfaction at, and the economic impact of, the Lincoln Christmas Market (Farhan Ahmed, Dr. Martin Elliott-White).
Tourism Markets Diversification: Evidence from Qatar
With Qatar placing its tourism sector as being key to diversifying its economy, this project seeks to boost the number of tourists in order to support sustainable development for the region, identifying support required by the Government, supplying a research evidence-based training module for Qatari tourism staff as well as a Government White Paper. (Project Lead: Dr Shrabani Saha)
A Learning Community: An Exploration of the Lincolnshire Tripod
Dr Georgiana Els has been awarded funding from the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) for an eighteen-month long Collaborative Enhancement project developed in collaboration with Mr. Chris Jackson from Bishop Grosseteste University (BGU).
Celebrating Sincil Bank  Events Training for Community Engagement
A collaboration developed between Dr Georgiana Els and Lincoln City Foundation (LCF) to assist volunteers with planning and delivering community events in the Sincil Bank area of Lincoln.
Lincolnshire Tourism Observatory
An initiative within the Department of Tourism, Languages and Marketing to provide expertise, produce high-quality research and generate evidence-driven analysis of tourism-related data with the aim of supporting the Lincolnshire visitor economy, informing policy debates and assisting local stakeholders with data-informed decision making. 
Understanding Intergenerational differences in visitors sustainable behaviours
Dr. Samira Zares project explores intergenerational differences in sustainability-related behaviours within the broader leisure context to inform both theory and practice about the implications of such behavioural differences
Using cultural capital for acculturation
Dr Connie Maks study draws on the sociological perspective of practice theories to explore the process of how educated and affluent immigrants from the Mainland China adapt to their new life and identities in Hong Kong through the consumption and acquisition of cultural capital
Hospitality, Now!
Dr Agnieszka Rydzik is launching a campaign Hospitality, Now!. Working in collaboration with a range of stakeholders, the aim is to change the culture of student employment in the hospitality sector. The campaign is funded by the QR Policy Support Fund and emerged from a research project on student-workers on zero-hour contracts in UK hospitality.
Reimagining Lincolnshire
Postdoctoral researcher Dr V. Araj and Prof H. Hughes, together with project volunteers, continue to uncover fascinating stories from this region that have been neglected or purposely forgotten.  For Black History Month, they launched Lincolns first Black History Trail, which will soon be available as a downloadable, self-guided tour. 
Lincolns engineering heritage
Dr Abi Hunt, Prof Heather Hughes and Tom Kitchen have been involved in an initiative to preserve vital collections of papers, films and objects relating to the history of Rustons, Lincolns most prominent engineering manufacturer. The citys industrial heritage is increasingly being recognised as an important part of the citys visitor offer.
We-Hope (Creative Europe)
Our modern cantastoria was premiered at the Frequency Festival in Lincoln in October. Sadly, due to Covid, none of our five project partners from across Europe was able to attend. We are now entering the last phase of the project, which will culminate with a celebration in a partner city in September 2022. 
IBCC Digital Archive (Update)
The archive continues to grow and attract recognition. We recently became members of the Community Archives and Heritage Group. Our partnership with the International Bomber Command Centre is an important one strategically for the University, as will be underlined in February 2022 with the signing of a new, twenty-year agreement.
Sense of Belonging in Sports Business Management
Sense of belonging on Sports Business Management programmes  this research by Prof. Hanya Pielichaty examines the experiences of students studying white, male-dominated degree programmes in connection with belonging.
The Good Student Employer Charter
The Good Student Employer Charter was launched in November 2023 and is currently open and free for businesses to join. Based on our research into employment practices around zero-hours contracts and student-worker experiences, Hospitality, Now! has developed a set of good practice principles and pledges for employers.
Research Seminars and Public Engagements
Find out about research seminars and public engagement activities from the Visitor Economy Research Group.
Members
A list of members of the Visitor Economy Research Group
Research Students
A list of research students of the Visitor Economy Research Group
Publications
View the latest publications by members of the Visitor Economy Research Group.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Research Seminars and Public Engagements | Visitor Economy Research Group | University of LincolnResearch Seminars and Public Engagements
The Redundancy of Space in Place-making
Thomas Kitchen
11 October 2024
place plays in contemporary societal discourse, serving as a grounding concept amidst a sea of ambiguous and abstract place-making keywords such as 'space'. He argues that 'place
space' in place-making discourses is also highlighted.", 'Thomas Kitchen is a Senior Lecturer in Tourism and Events Management/Programme Leader in the University of Lincoln. He delivers to students from across a range of programs, including Events Management, International Tourism Management, International Hospitality Management, Sports Business Management, and Fashion Management, at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Concurrently, Thomas is pursuing a PhD in Culture and Heritage Management, focusing on the concept of Contested Place making.
Role Of Captions In Social Media Engagement In The Context Of Sustainability Advertising
Ms Nuzhat Neury
8 June 2022
Abstract
In recent times, brands reputation and sales are significantly influenced by social-media-users opinion. This paper used self-consumption-vision (SCV), theory of emotion, and social influence theory to explores how consumers sustainable product purchase intentions and other sustainable-behavioural intentions are influenced by the social-media-users positive/negative captions with a sustainability-ad. 279 respondents participated in a 2 (positive vs negative caption) x 2 (high vs low source expertise) between-subject experiment. The result shows that, consumers can visualise themselves consuming the advertised sustainable product more vividly for positive captions than negative captions. This higher level of consumption vision produces higher level of emotion and affect subsequent social-media-engagement with the sustainability-ad, purchase intentions and other sustainable-behavioural intentions. Types of captions and level of source expertise have significant interaction effect on social-media-engagement. More specifically, the users will engage more for positive caption than the negative caption for low source expertise is low, but people will engage more for negative caption than positive caption, when souse-expertise is high. Future research may assess the acceptability of sustainability-ad depending on social dynamics of the social-media platforms.
Exploring the Utilisation of Chatbots in Tourism
Aditya Verma
11th May 2022
Abstract
 expectations from the emerging chatbots comparative to the traditional customer support methods such as email, phone and manual chat support. The research will also review the chatbot's adoption and its benefits after coronavirus pandemic customer support services. In tourism 4.0, productive utilisation of technology for the growth of tourism is a primary focus, and hence, chatbots have the potential for strengthening customer support services. However, understanding consumer insight about chatbots clarifies consumer expectations and adoption challenges which is a guideline in the future development of hybrid tourism chatbots using artificial intelligence and machine learning for higher consumer engagement, satisfaction, and personalised communication.", 'Academia, Ambition and Adventure: How Foucauldian diagnosis can contribute to criticality
Richard Voase
30th March 2022
Abstract
The current climate for academics is challenging. Full fees engender a student-consumer mentality; smartphones give students ever-present access to the distractions of social media; institutions are relentless in digital innovation. Confronted with these challenges, how does an academic ensure that materials are adventurous as well as accessible, animating rather than inert, and meet the needs of humans rather than the demands of software?
A Foucauldian diagnosis  Foucaults choice of word - does not of itself solve the problem, if problem it be. However, Foucaults methods enable us to view a circumstance in a new light. The results can be disarmingly revealing. Michel Foucault (1926-184), social theorist, was circumspect regarding the concept of authorship. For much of the time, says Foucault, human subjects recycle sets of messages and terms  discourses  encountered elsewhere.
In this seminar, I set out to explain Foucaults argument, and the conditions under which this recycling-of-the-familiar takes place. Foucault helps us to understand what we are and are not doing when we generate discourse. Foucaults writing may appear opaque, but his methods are elegantly simple. To illustrate the utility of his approach, reference to some close-to-home examples will be made. References to Foucaults work will be provided.
"This tour was an exceptional surprise: slavery heritage tourism and the embodied absence of the past
Emmanuel Akwasi Adu-Ampong
Assistant Professor in Cultural Geography at Wageningen University & Research, The Netherlands, a co-Editor-in-Chief of the international peer-reviewed Tourism Planning and Development journal published by Routledge (Taylor & Francis) and a Research Associate at the School of Tourism and Hospitality, University of Johannesburg, South Africa.
26th January2022
Abstract
Across many European countries there is an ongoing struggle with telling the contentious stories of slavery and colonialisation. Tourism practices and performances can play a transformative role in this process of telling the stories of history and heritage. In this presentation I examine a slavery-related heritage tour: Black Heritage Amsterdam Tours (BHAT), using a framework that stresses the narrative power and transformative work of tourism in the politics of slavery heritage. BHAT is a guided walking, sightseeing and boat tour that explore Amsterdam to make visible the hidden histories of the African Diaspora and colonial history of the Netherlands from the 17th-century history. The tour weaves around the Dam Square through to the historic De Wallen neighbourhood along some of Amsterdams oldest streets and buildings, and involves a stopover at the Rijksmuseum.
I start by developing the conceptual notion of the embodied absence of the past to refer to the physical presence but narrative absence of the shared history and role of people of African descent in European societies. I then focus on how tourism practices and performances such as the BHAT makes visible and challenges this embodied absence of the past. This study seeks to highlight the transformative work of tourism by exploring what visitors take away from their tour of slavery and colonial heritage in Amsterdam. Specifically, it examines visitors thoughts about the representation of Dutch slavery and colonial heritage during the tour and their views on the physical remnants of such heritage in the built environment. Data for this study comes from 147 visitor review comments posted on the travel website TripAdvisor under the BHAT page between April 2013  August, 2020. A thematic analysis methodological approach is utilised in gaining an understanding of what visitors learn about Dutch slavery and colonial history during the tour. This study shows how the cultural imagination of slavery is negotiated in the context of the slavery heritage tourism practices seen as leisurely pursuit as well as seen as transformative memorial of the past.
Innovation in agricultural and county shows: conceptualising the e-eventscape.
Prof. Gary Bosworth (Northumbria University) and Dr Barry Ardley
10th December2021
Abstract
In response to the cancellation of a host of events during the summer of 2020, the purpose of this paper is to examine the rapid innovation that created an online County Show. County Shows are traditionally associated with agriculture and the wider rural economy of a region and provide a range of visitor experiences alongside business networking and trading opportunities. The case of the online Lincolnshire Show sought to replicate many aspects of a physical show, and this paper evaluates its effectiveness by applying a newly developed e-eventscape model. A mixed-methods approach generated data from businesses, visitors and the show organiser. Surveys and social media feedback from attendees captured overall satisfaction levels and suggestions for improvements. Participation in the online Business Breakfast event along with an interview with the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Show provided deeper understanding of the innovation occurring. The nature of innovation was strongly rooted in place, despite creating a virtual product. Local networks and supporters were critical to staging the online Show. The proposed e-eventscape model allowed an effective appraisal of the online Show, identifying many strengths in terms of the user interface and aesthetics as well as opportunities for improvement, especially linked to greater interactive engagement. The impacts of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have accelerated digital innovation in a range of events and festivals. This provides an opportunity to examine the evolving role of Shows in the rural economy and the innovation processes that have emerged. As well as presenting original insights into rural innovation, the paper develops and tests a new e-eventscape model applicable to the growing field of online events and festivals. Findings indicate that there is considerable scope for organisers to embed online content into the future of many live Shows and festivals, far beyond the COVID-19 pandemic.
Innovative methodologies: Walking-with method
Dr. Connie Mak
6th October2021
Abstract
The en-route consumer-practices have long been overlooked in consumer research, even though lifestyles, tastes and consumption practices are omnipresent on the street, on route to home and to places of work. Applied to a study of impression management and construction of professional identity, the rather new walking-with method seeks out inquisitive conversations with research participants while accompanying them to and from work. Capitalizing on the sense-stimulation effect and resonant validity generated from the physical surroundings and bodily movement, the new approach is found to be a desirable alternative or complement to the traditional sit-down narrative interviews and other research methods.
Exploring the relationship between tourism and poverty using the capability approach
Dr. Theres Winter
16th June2021
Abstract
Tourism has been regarded as a tool for development and poverty alleviation over many decades. Yet tourism research on poverty to date largely focuses on the income-based poverty analysis and does not fully consider the multidimensional nature of poverty or the views of poor people. Applying the capability approach, this paper examines the opportunities provided by tourism development and their contribution to achieving well-being from the perspectives of people living in poverty. The study was undertaken in a small coastal tourist destination in the Northeast of Brazil using a mixed- methods approach that combined quantitative value chain analysis and qualitative interviews with photo-elicitation. The findings show that participants value opportunities associated with both monetary and non-monetary tourism resources and these opportunities help them achieve diverse aspects of well-being. This study demonstrates how the capability approach can help investigate the impacts of tourism development on poverty reduction and well-being of poor people in a more holistic and nuanced way by considering the plural and relative nature of poverty and well-being.
Pubs. Selling third places by the pound: Landlords, loyalty and a labour of love
Victoria Ellis-Vowles
26th March2021
Abstract
Oldenburg (1989) proclaims the great British pub is a third place which is described as a home away from home set in a commercial outlet where customers create an environment of belonging, restoration and rejuvenation. However, the landlord assumes a role that is one of participation and integration where they take on a social supportive and community role in addition to that of a commercial manager. While Oldenburg (1989) renders the role of management invisible, the landlord is considered socially significant. This complete membership ethnography positioned the researcher backstage for 16 months to explore the role of the landlord through the lens of management to unpack the complexities and difficulties of managing a pub as a third place. The research introduces the Third Place Dependency Model which conceptualises third places as emerging from social stability which acts as a facilitator of business sustainability. It re-conceptualises the third place as a fragile socio-spatial manifestation of a feeling or a sentiment within a given place and time where the landlords role at its most basic, is to introduce and maintain social stability. The difficulty emerges when social stability is threatened by deviant customer behaviour further complicated by an embedded social servicescape. It introduces Customer Equilibrium Management (CEM) as a framework promoting ongoing positive customer experiences in a service environment through the maintenance of social stability.
Making impact with your research
Prof. Heather Hughes
11th March2021
Abstract
Impact is more than a REF exercise. Increasingly, funding bodies require evidence that impact planning has been embedded in funding applications. This session will look briefly at the visitor economy case study for the current REF but will also investigate what impact means in a broader research context, how to plan for it and how to make the most of impact that may happen by chance.
Consumers Responses to Brand Extensions: An Emotional Perspective
Tsunwai Wesley Yuen
2nd December 2020
Abstract
Brand extension (BE) strategy involves the use of an established brand to introduce similar (high fit) or dissimilar (low fit) new products in relation to the parent brands original offerings, such as product category or class. For example, Colgates electric toothbrush and Colgates ready meal represent high and low product category fit BEs, respectively. While this strategy can capitalise on the parent brands equity to grow market share, it does not always succeed. This research proposes that consumers emotional responses to BEs can hinder adoption. A growing number of marketing studies have indicated that product attributes can elicit consumers emotional responses, which influence their attitudinal and behavioural responses towards the product. While previous BE research has investigated how affective dimensions influence consumers evaluation of BEs, no research has been conducted on the effects of consumers emotional responses towards BEs. This research deploys the cognitive appraisal theory to understand how: (1) individuals interpretation of a BE situation (appraisal dimensions) precedes their emotional response, and (2) consumers emotional responses affect behaviours. Hence, the current research proposes that the BEs product category fit is the BE appraisal situation, which influences the consumers cognitive appraisal process. Then, the research draws on the consumers emotional brand attachment as a personal factor and brand name structure as a branding factor in the BE appraisal situation. These factors interact with product category fit and influence consumers emotional responses to BEs. To address these hypotheses, this research developed a scale for measuring emotions in the BE context (n = 1617). This scale is used in subsequent studies. Study 1 (n = 353) confirms that appraisal dimensions can predict consumers emotional responses in BE consumption situations. Study 2 (n = 393) demonstrates that product category fit can affect consumers emotional responses through the cognitive appraisal process, and consumers emotional brand attachment positively moderates their emotional responses through appraisal dimensions. In Study 3 (n = 370), it is found that a sub-branding strategy can weaken the negative effect of product category fit on consumers negative emotional responses. Study 4 (n = 353) replicates all results from the previous studies. Each of these studies confirms that emotional responses can influence consumers attitudinal and behavioural responses to BEs. The practical implications of these findings are also discussed
Gender, diversity and inclusion in the UK events industry
Dr. Kate Dashper (Leeds Beckett University)
28th October 2020
Abstract
The events industry provides approximately half a million full-time equivalent jobs in the UK across a range of sectors from MICE, to sports events, to arts and cultural events. Despite being female dominated in numerical terms, there is a clear glass ceiling in the industry, with women and minority groups under-represented at senior levels. This presentation reports on survey research conducted just before the pandemic plunged the events industry into uncertainty and turmoil, and interviews from the first half of the lockdown. Results illustrate the lack of diversity in the events workforce, and show clear gender differences in career success (based on pay, promotions, level of seniority) and career satisfaction. Findings are discussed in the context of the COVID-19 crisis that risks pushing diversity and inclusion off the agenda and entrenching inequality in the UK events workforce.
"Nine iconic addresses, nine extraordinary hotels, one unique collection  stylistic analysis of the language of luxury in the marketing materials of The Dorchester Collection
Dr. Malgorzata Drewniok
30th September 2020
Abstract
The Dorchester Collection (DC) is a group of 9 luxury hotels located across the globe. The hotels, the locations, and the particular buildings are chosen meticulously to create this unique collection. The word collection, an obvious borrowing from the language of fashion and design, has been chosen on purpose  to invoke carefully curated art rather than bring to mind a run-of-the-mill hotel chain. The Collection is consistent in how it presents itself, in general marketing materials, in the promotion of particular hotels, and in how its representatives speak about it. As a linguist with interest in branding and advertising, in this talk I will explore how this self-proclaimed language of luxury is employed to create a certain brand image for the Dorchester Collection. My data will be the DC booklet briefly presenting each of the hotels, the history of the specific hotels available on their websites (so-called media kits), as well as the websites themselves. I will apply stylistic analysis to these texts, with particular interest in the vocabulary and grammar choices. My aim is to find what exactly the language of luxury is  is it quantifiable at all? This area has been under-researched so far, but I will draw on the brand linguistics framework, the existing work on tourism discourse, and the examination of similar luxury hotels.
Contested heritage, colliding narratives: the visitor economy of NE Italy
Alessandro Pesaro
1st July 2020
Abstract
Located at the intersection of Latin, Germanic and Slavic cultures, this region has been deeply affected by war, shifting borders, totalitarian regimes and conflicting territorial claims. These events have shaped memories, narratives and an array of controversial memorials about dramatic events in the past. The presentation will explore this landscape and the implications for the local visitor economy
Can Being Dissimilar in Product Category be an Opportunity for Cross-gender Brand Extension?
Tsunwai Wesley Yuen
17th June 2020
Abstract
Leveraging cross-gender brand extensions (new product offerings under the same brand name to customers of the opposite sex) by gendered brands can present a way to meet the need for brand growth. However, how to implement such strategies remains a challenge. The most common approach is to launch a brand extension in the same or similar product category (high product category fit). However, in the context of cross-gender brand extension, the issue can be more complicated. Instead, using low product category fit strategy can have some advantages due to its ability to distance the extension from the parent brand. Two experimental studies confirm that introducing low (versus high) product category fit cross-gender brand extensions mitigate the parent brands brand personality dilution (i.e., masculinity or femininity), bringing more positive evaluations to the parent brand amongst existing customers and higher purchase intention amongst new target customers on the cross-gender brand extension.
Towards a theoretical framework on Internal Destination Brand Strength
Dr. Ilenia Bregoli
27th May 2020
Abstract
This seminar presents and discusses a theoretical framework on Internal Destination Branding developed on the basis of analysis of marketing and tourism literature, as well as data collected through semi-structured interviews with destination stakeholders working in four UK cities.
Reflections on eclecticism, applied and translational research in tourism studies
Dr Phil Long (Bournemouth University)
8th April 2020
Abstract
This seminar considers topics that connect tourism with substantive areas of academic research with critical policy implications. Examples from Phil's work, including alcohol and public health; 'soft power' and public diplomacy; creative industries and places and; active ageing and social prescribing will be outlined. Seminar participants will be invited to contribute their own research interests into the discussion.
Nowt much to look at': How a Piece of Mediaeval Vellum Conquered the World", 'Richard Voase and Barry Ardley
22nd January 2020
Abstract
highly inspiring' article (Medieval Histories online), the authors entertain you with the story of the Magna Carta, what it means to the people who come to see it, and how it gave them something to write about.", 'Webinars
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Bespoke Courses | Executive Development | University of LincolnWhat We Offer
We will help you identify your training needs and recommend a selection of solutions from qualifications, training workshops to one-to-one coaching and consultancy. We can adapt one of our existing workshops, short courses or qualifications to suit your needs or create something new just for you.
Designed For You
The focus will be on your own company rather than generic examples, and maximise impact by incorporating presentations from your auditors or company management. You decide where and when you want to run the training  at your own premises or at another suitable venue of your choice - anywhere in the world.
Case Studies
Amongst our clients, the Lincoln International Business School has worked to provide programmes for the following organisations:
Book A Consultation
Every tailored service is different - we customise a programme that suits your needs. Tell us about your project or challenges, and we will design you a specific proposal for your needs.
Please contactLIBS_Exec@lincoln.ac.ukto arrange a consultation with our team.


James Pinchbeck | University of LincolnIn this section
James Pinchbeck is Partner with mid-tier, top 40 UK accountancy and tax practice Streets Chartered Accountants. He is responsible for the strategic development of the firms marketing concerned with growth and development. A role for which he is well placed as a graduate in Business Studies, specialising in Marketing and Accounting.
James has a broad interest in education and enterprise and is a non-executive director of a national enterprise agency NWES, he is a Fellow of the Institute of Directors and past Chairman of the Greater Lincolnshire Branch.. James has a broad interest in education through his interest and involvement as a past primary and secondary school governor. He is Chair Lincoln College Board of Corporation. His in interest in work force development, the skills agenda and management development is furthered by his Board presence of Greater Lincolnshire Employment and Skills Board. He is also Chair of the Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership Growth Hub Programme Board.



Pat Doody | University of LincolnIn this section
Pat moved to Lincolnshire some 28 years ago and leads NatWest Banks Commercial Business in the area. This entails covering locations as diverse as Stamford and Skegness and includes team members specialising in Leisure, Manufacturing, Agriculture, Distribution, Healthcare, Technology and Professional servicesas well as more generalist trading. He carries out a number of external posts including the Advisory Board here at the Business School but also is a board member of the Greater Lincolnshire LEP, Chairs the GLLEPS European Funding ( ESIF) Committee as well as other involvements. His passion for Education also saw him as Vice Chair of the Lincoln College Group until 2017. His other passions are all things Welsh sport especially Rugby and of course family as well as a bit of cycling to keep at least partially fit! Loves the County and is encouraged by both its growth and continued potential.



Research Students | Visitor Economy Research Group | University of LincolnResearch Students
Thinking ofpursuing a PhD?
We welcome applications from researchers interested in doing a PhD in Tourism, Culture and Heritage Management, and Marketing.For more information about our MPhil/PhD offer, feel free to contact:
Dr. Agnieszka Rydzik |arydzik@lincoln.ac.uk
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Meet the Team | University of LincolnIn this section
Your Distance Learning Team
The LIBS faculty is representative of a diverse range of students with many academic staff coming from a variety of regions globally such as China, Africa, South Asia and Europe. Our learners are able to benefit from the passionate team of academics who come with a range of different experiences and a variety of backgrounds. Our expert academic team will enable you to build on your existing knowledge and skills and achieve degree success, understanding how study underpins work and how work strengthens study.
Amy Mumby
Academic Lead / Programme Leader / Department of Management
Tracey White
Principal Lecturer / Learning Innovation / Programme Leader
Karen Burrows
Alex Alterskye
Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader / Department of Management
Anthony Smith
Senior Lecturer / Department of Management
Brenda Pearson
Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader / Department of Management
Helen Roe
Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader / Department of Management
Janet Marshall
Lecturer / Programme Leader / Department of Management
Tony Clark
Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader / Department of Management
Lee McHugh
 Lecturer / Department of Management
Olanrewaju Olaoye
Lecturer / Programme Leader / Department of Management


Seminar Rooms | Executive Venue Hire | University of LincolnLayout Options

Equipment
Equipment (included in room rate*)
Room Hire Costs
Full day (8am to 5pm)
200+VAT
Part-Day (up to 4 hours)
120+VAT
Catering
Our catering has been designed to assist you with your hospitality needs. We are committed to providing fresh quality produce combined with exceptional service.
We are able to provide beverages, breakfasts, packed lunches, working lunches, and optional extras.
How to Book
To book this room please complete the booking form below (Microsoft Word)
LIBS Executive Development Venue Booking Form
LIBS Executive Development Booking T&Cs
*Pleasecontact usat LIBS_Exec@Lincoln.ac.ukwith your requirements when booking a room. All equipment is subject to availability


Advisory Board | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnJames Pinchbeck - Chair of the Advisory Board)
James Pinchbeck is Partner with mid-tier, top 40 UK accountancy and tax practice Streets Chartered Accountants. He is responsible for the strategic development of the firms marketing concerned with growth and development.
Ben Hill
Urs Hauenstein
Urs Hauenstein is the Volunteer President of the International Council of Leadership, Governance, Entrepreneurship and Management (ICLGEM), the Association of Swiss Quality Competencies and Qualifications (SQCQ), the Institute of Competencies and Qualifications in Switzerland and the International Network for Accreditation, Recognition and Dissemination in UK (INARD). In these functions he serves as well as Distinguished Visiting Professor in different Colleges / Universities in Eastern Europe and UK.
Simon Beardsley
Simon Beardsley is Chief Executive of the Lincolnshire Chamber of Commerce; a leading business representation and support organisation in the county, promoting the interests of member businesses, connecting and contributing in partnership towards a prosperous regional economy making a difference to its members.
Sean Ramsden
Sean Ramsden is the founder and CEO of Ramsden International  the UKs leading international wholesaler of British food and drink.
Faraz Khan
A multi-stakeholder investment and impact specialist, author, and public speaker with over 25 years of experience. He is the founder of Social, Entrepreneurship & Equity Development (SEED) Ventures which is an investment and impact development organisation in Pakistan. Within 10 years he has taken the group from an idea to a sustainable organisation, with a turnover of $ 40 million for SEED and its portfolio companies. With a strong base in the UK, he has been able to create collaborations and partnerships at a local and global level with public, private, development, media, academia and financial sectors.
Jane Owen Jones
Jane Owen Jones is the founder of Lloydmasters Consulting, a transformation management consultancy, set up over 30 years ago. Focused on providing support in the areas of organisational and leadership capability, integrated project team alignment, and organisational risk and resilience, Jane has worked extensively overseas, as well as in the UK for organisations connected to the oil, transport and construction sectors, such as BP, Balfour Beatty, Siemens, Morgan Sindall and HS2.
Clive Vacher
Clive is an industrialist who has served as Chief Executive Officer of De La Rue, the world's leading currency and authentication provider, since October 2019.
Pat Doody
Pat moved to Lincolnshire some 28 years ago and leads NatWest Banks Commercial Business in the area. 
Howard Gannaway
Following an early career in teaching, Howard joined the financial services industry where he became a key figure in developing the technical processes and client communications policies of the emerging profession of financial planning.
Vicky Addison
Assistant Director and Head of Business Incubation, Innovation and Growth at the University of Lincoln; responsible for leading the strategic development and delivery of business innovation and growth programmes


Accreditation | University of LincolnIn this section
Business Success Stories
Dedicated to enhancing careers, growing individual potential and creating the business success stories of the future. Our goal is to ensure that wherever you are, in whatever role, you are supported by our expert teaching staff to get the full benefit of your University of Lincoln experience both academically and professionally.
Chartered Management Institute Accredited
Our Work Based Distance Learning Management degrees are dual accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the only Chartered professional body in the UK working to promote excellence in management and leadership.
Upon successful completion of your Work Based Distance Learning degree, you will* qualify for a Level 5 Diploma with the CMI in Management and Leadership and Chartered Manager status, the highest status that can be achieved in the management profession.
*for students who have studied and gained credit through the Initial Logistics Officer Course with the Royal Navy the Level 5 Diploma with the CMI in Management and Leadership and Chartered Manager status in only available if the Managing Operations elective module is chosen.
Chartered Institute Of Professional Development Accredited
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resources Management is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD). CIPD accreditation is recognised internationally as a gold standard mark of quality, and guarantees Lincolns status as a leading, research-led institution in the fields of management and development, and HR.
As a student on this Work-Based Distance Learning programme, CIPD accreditation means that your study is underpinned by cutting edge HR research and best practice, ensuring its relevancy for the challenges you will face as an HR Manager in the workplace.
As a student on the BSc (Hons) HRM programme, you will receive CIPD student membership. After graduation from the programme, your membership will be upgraded to CIPD Associate Member, a badge of credibility that is increasingly important to, and valued by, employers.
Chartered Institute Of Logistics And Transport Accredited
Graduates from theBSc (Hons) Logistics Management benefit from our accreditation by the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT). CILT accreditation demonstrates our dedication to helping our students innovate and deliver excellence in the movement of goods or people and the management of supply chains.
Our CILT accreditation ensures that, as a graduate, you will be exempted from the academic requirements for CILT membership at either Chartered Member or membership level, both of which offer competitive advantages in the employment market.


Executive Development | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnLincoln International Business School aims to provide a supported and sustainable platform for leadership and management to organisations within the Greater Lincolnshire area and beyond.
This is testament to the commitment in supporting small businesses, student entrepreneurship, and the local economy.
The Help to Grow: Management Course supports managers of small and medium sized businesses to boost their businesss performance, resilience, and long-term growth.
Leadership and Management
Executive Development at Lincoln aims to offer a platform to engage the business community through:
Our aim is to help organisations:
Developing a Managerial Mindset
Develop your management skills with this practical 7-month management development programme.
Help to Grow Management Course
The Help to Grow: Management Course supports managers of small and medium sized businesses to help boost their businesss performance, resilience, and long-term growth.
Apprenticeships
Study for a degree while gaining hands-on experience and a professional pathway for future development through a Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA).
Bespoke Courses
For some organisations, the ideal answer to a skills-gap can be a bespoke solution which is designed to ensure you get exactly the learning you need, when and where you want it.
LIBS Connect
LIBS Connect is our premium networking event through which our business community can engage with our team and their peers.
Executive Venue Hire
Situated in the heart of the city of Lincoln, the custom-built Executive Development Centre is ideally placed for a wide range of events.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Research | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnDeveloping Knowledge for Business Success
At Lincoln International Business School, our aim is to deliver excellent research which benefits businesses and policy-makers while at the same time deepening understanding and contributing to our teaching. To do so we engage actively with a wide array of collaborative partners drawn from other universities, business, non-profit, government and non-government organisations across the world.
Our research engagement and collaboration is both local and global. Locally we work with partners here in Lincolnshire including Lincolnshire County Council, local businesses and community organisations. However, we are also conducting research in other countries or with international partners, from Columbia to China, Australia to Canada. We are strongly committed to collaboration within the EU and are currently a partner in an EU-funded Marie Curie Innovative Training Network with partners in Norway, Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, Portugal and Spain.
In the most recent Research Excellence Framework Lincoln International Business School was one of the most improved business schools relative to the previous RAE in 2008. With a 55% improvement in the overall score, moving up to 56th in the country, Lincoln was the 7th best modern university for business and management research. 52% of our submitted publications were rated as either internationally excellent or world leading. We were particularly proud of our record on research impact. The impact case studies submitted to the REF were scored as being 70% internationally excellent and 30% world leading.
2022 Research Showcase
We are delighted to present the Lincoln International Business School 2022 Research Showcase, with an engaging schedule of invited key notes.
PhD Study at LIBS
Lincoln Business School is committed to research that has practical value and actively engages with a range of organisations. We welcome applications from those wishing to pursue research study at the Lincoln International Business School. 
Researching community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks and community groups.
The Marketing Research Group (MaRG) collates and develops the research calibre of a group of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are contributing to a wide range of marketing-related studies. These include marketing strategies, consumption, consumer culture, consumer behaviour, communications, advertising, digital and social media, brand management, entrepreneurial marketing and consumer technology.
The Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group has a growing track record of social and economic development research. 
Undertaking research which contributes new knowledge in order to help business benefit economies and societies everywhere.
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) concentrates on projects in the areas of tourism, events and leisure.  
LEAF facilitate the creation and diffusion of rigorous and policy relevant research as well as research skills within the university, the local community, and the society at large. 


Executive Development Privacy Policy | Executive Development | University of LincolnYour personal information
The University of Lincoln collects personal information about you when you register to attend an event, course or contact us about one of our services. We use this information to keep you informed about executive development news, events and programmes which may interest you or other people in your organisation. This notice explains more about how we use your personal information.
The Lincoln International Business School is a College of the University of Lincoln. The Executive Development Centre operates as part of the Lincoln International Business School and its purpose is to provide educational and consulting services to the business community including organisations and individuals. Your information is held by the University of Lincoln.
We collect contact information about you when you register for an event, course or meet us through a networking event, send us an email, or consult with one of our team. We collect your name, contact number, email, and job role/company position. We will keep a note of any changes you tell us about your contact details.
Keep your details up to date by contacting us at LIBS_Exec@lincoln.ac.uk or 01522 835566
We collect information about you to tell you about news, events and programmes related to the services offered to you and others in your organisation, as well as any related news from academic research and teaching programmes at LIBS. We will be relying on your consent as the legal basis for us to provide you with this information. You can stop receiving our promotional emails by following the unsubscribe instructions included in every email we send.
We use your information to send you notices about the course including course material, dates, invitations to events, reminders, etc. in order to deliver the course. If you consent, we will also use this information to tell you about other ED programmes and events which may be of interest. You can stop receiving our promotional emails by following the unsubscribe instructions included in every email we send.
Those individuals from which we have received their data through interest previously expressed in our services, products and one to one contact with our team we will provide the option to unsubscribe for any future mailings.
The University occasionally uses cookies and other technologies on its website that collect data about you when you use them. Where this occurs further information will be available in a cookies policy. The cookies policy for the University website can be found here: http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/termsconditions.
We use a number of suppliers who process personal information on our behalf such as MailChimp. These include suppliers of software services. These act strictly on our instructions and must not use the information for their own purposes.
CMI
For those that enrol with the Chartered Management Institute through our courses, with your consent we will share your information to enable the CMI to provide services and support to you. This information is:

The Data Sharing Agreement between the University and the CMI includes a full list of the information shared and forms part of our Memorandum of Understanding.
Sponsors and employers
If you are being funded to undertake your course by a sponsor or employer then the University may need to pass your personal data, for example in the form of an invoice, progress report or attendance report to that sponsor or employer, as part of your contract with your sponsor or employer.
Company visits and field trips
Where your course requires you to undertake a visit or attend an event off campus, with another organisation, it will be necessary for the University to share some of your information with that provider.
In exceptional circumstances we may be asked to share your information with police or other investigators if it would prevent or detect crime or safeguard a persons wellbeing. Each instance will be judged on its own merit and any sharing of information will be done within the law.
Other Partners and District Councils
Where you are attending a course hosted by a partner or district councils we will share your name and employer details so that they can monitor recruitment targets and employer engagement in their scope. Your information, such as name and employer name will be shared where the courses are taking place in non-university premises for the purposes of registering visitors and planning venue requirements.
For the purposes of our news emails, we will keep your information on file until you tell us to unsubscribe.
If you access additional University services these may keep a record of your contact and will provide you with details of how long they keep your information.
You have a number of rights relating to your personal information. These include:
Access
You have the right to request a copy of any personal information we hold about you.

If you would like a copy of any of your information please contact the Information Compliance team on the details below. The team will process your request within a month.

Portability 

If you have provided information on the basis of your consent or for a contract then you can request a digital copy so you can send it to another organisation.

To request a copy please contact the Information Compliance team on the details below. The team will process your request within a month.

Correction
If any of the information we hold about you is incorrect or incomplete then please let us know. You have the right to have your information corrected so that we hold accurate records about you.

Erasure
This is also known as the right to be forgotten. You can request that your personal information is erased if it is no longer necessary for the University to keep it, or you withdraw consent that you have previously provided, or you object and there is no overriding grounds to keep it or if it is unlawful to continue to keep it.

Restriction
You can request that the use of your personal information is limited to storage only and that we use it for no other purpose. This applies where you contest the accuracy of the personal information we hold, or our use of the information is unlawful, or we no longer need the information except in relation to legal claims, or you object to the use of your data and we need to verify whether or not our purpose for keeping it overrides the grounds of your objection.

The Information Compliance team can be contacted by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at: Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
If you object to our use of your personal information then we must stop unless we can demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for continuing. Please contact LIBS_Exec@lincoln.ac.uk or 01522 835566 and explain your objection.
If you have provided your consent for the use of your personal information then you can withdraw this consent at any time by contacting LIBS_Exec@lincoln.ac.uk or 01522 835566. Alternatively, you can stop receiving our promotional emails by following the unsubscribe instructions included in every email we send.
For general enquiries please call 01522 88 2000 or write to University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can find contact details for individual teams and staff by visiting http://staff.lincoln.ac.uk. 
If you have a query about your personal information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
If you feel that we have let you down in relation to your information rights then please contact the Information Compliance team by email on compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or by post at Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can also make complaints directly to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the independent authority upholding information rights for the UK. Their website is ico.org.uk and their telephone helpline number is 0303 123 1113.


Harvard Lecture Theatre | Executive Venue Hire | University of LincolnRoom Layout

Equipment
Equipment (included in room rate*)
Room Hire Costs
Full day (8am to 5pm)
400+VAT
Part-Day (up to 4 hours)
240+VAT
Catering
Our catering has been designed to assist you with your hospitality needs. We are committed to providing fresh quality produce combined with exceptional service.
We are able to provide beverages, breakfasts, packed lunches, working lunches, and optional extras.
How to Book
To book this room please complete the booking form below (Microsoft Word)
LIBS Executive Development Venue Booking Form
LIBS Executive Development Booking T&Cs
*Pleasecontact usat LIBS_Exec@Lincoln.ac.ukwith your requirements when booking a room. All equipment is subject to availability


Global Experiences | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnBroaden Your Horizon
Lincoln International Business Schools Global Experiences aim to provide students with the freedom to explore different ways of broadening cultural boundaries, developing business acumen, and cultivating a range of skills sought after by employers.
 learning and social experience during their time with us.", 'Global Certificate
The Global Certificate is available to all students in Lincoln International Business School and has been created to enhance cultural perspectives and improve global understanding. To fully appreciate the culturally diverse environment that the University offers, and the learning experiences available, the Global Certificate aims to recognise the benefits of attending the many internationally focused events available to help students to make the most of their time at the University.
Global Week
Global Week is a celebration of the multicultural community that exists within Lincoln International Business School through events such as the International Opportunities Fair, Language Taster Sessions, Kitchen Takeovers, and Cultural Exchange Sessions. All students are welcome to get involved with events across the campus and to take part in competitions and celebrations of diversity and culture. All events in Global Week can provide points towards the Global Certificate.
International Opportunities Fair

Global Masters Business Challenge
The Global Masters Business Challenge is open to all Lincoln International Business School postgraduate students. The Challenge is a team-based business simulation event that provides participants with the opportunity to act as a Board of Directors who take responsibility for improving the performance of a company.
The first round of the Challenge involves developing and running a business through business simulation software, during which students have an academic mentor to help them through the first round. Teams who successfully make it to the second round will go through to the final in London. Find out more about the Global Masters Business Challenge by visiting the UBC Global Masterswebsite.

International Student Support
From the point of joining Lincoln International Business School through to graduation, international students can benefit from adedicated International Support Officer and an International team who are here to assist with anything from academic questions right through to helping students join the University of Lincoln community.
There is a weekly drop-in service and an exciting calendar of social events around campus. Students can chat with the team before arriving to ask any specific questions about life at Lincoln, and are encouraged to check our social media channels for news and updates on the many events and activities the University offers.
Connect with Us
For more information or to get involved, contact the International Student Support team.
T:+44 (0)1522 835509
E:libsinternational@lincoln.ac.uk


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


LIBS Field Trips | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnField TripOpportunities for Lincoln International Business School Students
Lincoln International Business School students can expand their horizons and see international business in action by joining funded international trips to exciting overseas destinations.
LIBS Field Trips gives students the opportunity to enhance their global mindset, connect with our global community and partners, and learn from international experts through 100 funded field trip places each academic year.
Places are open to all students enrolled on a programme within Lincoln International Business School. However, each student can only receive funding for one LIBS 100 trip throughout their study, so please make sure that you apply for the ones most relevant to your areas of interest.
During the Trip
Students are expected to play an active role both before and during the trip. This means you may be required to work on projects relating to the trip prior to the travel period.
You will also be expected to evidence engagement with the following trip outcomes:

Application Process
An application form will need to be completed for each trip, and you can apply for several trips, although you will only be accepted onto one. Places are limited and will be awarded on the strength of each individual application, so please take your time with your application to ensure that you meet all the relevant criteria.
Important Information
LIBS 100 funding covers transfer costs between Lincoln and the trip destination, and accommodation during the trip duration. You will still be required to cover some costs during the trip, such as for food and extra activities.
As part of the trips, photos and videos will be taken of the group. These may be used for promotional purposes on the University website, social media, Open Days or similar. If you do not want to be included in promotional photographs, then please let the trip organisers know in advance.
Previous Trips
Where Can I Go?
Please see below for the trips planned for this academic year. Please note that there are some parts of the trips that are still in development, and all are subject to change, depending on the global environment. Any updates will be sent to your student email address once you have had your place confirmed.
Killarney, Republic of Ireland
December2022
Theres a reason they call Ireland the Emerald Isle! Known for its rolling green hills, its not surprising that Ireland is prioritising sustainable travel and business practices.
The Republic of Ireland is proud of its natural resources and the innovation of its people, and is making conscious efforts to protect and enhance them through initiatives that encourage sustainability. Located on the edge of Killarney National Park, The Gleneagle Hotel has flourished from modest beginnings into one of Irelands most popular visitor destinations. During the trip, you will learn more about how the entrepreneurial spirit which first inspired a young Killarney family to turn their home into a business endures with sustainability and entrepreneurship at its heart.
This trip is organised in collaboration with Gleneagle Hotel and Apartments and will include activities focusing on sustainable business and entrepreneurship. During the trip you will be required to work in groups on a project relating to Decent Work and Economic Growth/Life on Land.
Applications Closed
Essen and Dusseldorf, Germany
December 2022
The cityscape of Essen is dominated by contemporary architecture, but remnants of its industrial past have been lovingly reserved and blended with the modern face of the city, making it an immensely interesting and characterful city to explore. Essen has previously been awarded the titles of European Capital of Culture and European Green Capital, and is home to several large companies. It is also known as the Energy Capital of Germany, with the two largest providers having headquarters in the city, following E-ON opening their renewable energy headquarters to the city in 2016.
As part of the trip, you will explore Essens Christmas Market, one of the largest in the country. Despite its size and breadth of stall available, Essen remains an under-the-radar Christmas market destination for most international tourists, making it a great choice for visitors looking to get a bit more off the beaten path. You will also work with students from our partner institution, DAA Wirtschaftsakademie.
Applications Closed
Rimini and Bologna, Italy
April2023
s one of Italy's most popular beach resorts, meanwhile the historic centre offers history fans a range of Roman relics and buildings dating back from the Middle Ages to explore. You will also have the opportunity to explore Bologna  famous for more than just its sauce! The city of Bologna has a rich history and thus a lot to offer. The city hosts the oldest university of the world, and architecture was amended while the university grew overtime. Several unique buildings and the famous porticos were created to make sure the university could keep growing.", 'During the trip, you will visit the Rimini Campus of the University of Bologna, one of the oldest universities in the Western world, and meet some of their students from Italy and further afield to learn about tourism and business practices.
Applications Closed
Ljubljana, Slovenia
April2023
Ljubljana  the capital of Slovenia - is the winner of the European Best Destination 2022, and once you visit youll understand why!
Slovenia has a rich history and culture to be explored, located in the centre of Europe, it is known as the green heart of Europe. The capital has also previously been crowned with title of Green Capital of 2016 and is known for its vibrant city life and culinary richness, with the magnificent Ljubljana castle in the centre representing the rich history and culture of the city. This trip is organised in collaboration with GEA College, one of our Study Abroad partners with a focus on entrepreneurship and practical learning. During the trip, you will work with students from GEA in a variety of workshops focussed on sustainable business, innovation, and entrepreneurship. You will also visit local businesses to see their methods in practice, and of course have time to explore Ljubljana and experience Slovenian food and culture.
Applications Closed
London, United Kingdom
June 2023
Applications Closed
Terms and Conditions
Please keep an eye on your Global Lounge and the LIBS Global Experiences social media channels for further news and opportunties for travel.
*application deadlinesmay be subject to change. Please keep checking this page for the latest information.
Limited number of places per trip. Places are by application only. One funded trip per student during their period of study. Students must be up-to-date with all assessments, and have an attendance record of 80% or more to be eligible to apply for a funded place*. Students must have a valid passport and visa. Advice will be offered to any international students applying.
Please note -although LIBS 100 provides students with the opportunity to undertake funded field trip places, students are required to have adequate funding for additional costs such as food and activities throughout the duration of their trip.
**If you do not meet these requirements but believe that you have a valid exemption, please contactLIBSGET@lincoln.ac.uk to discuss if you would be eligible to apply.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Community Organisation Research Group | Research | University of LincolnWhat Are We Doing?
The Community Organisation Research Group at Lincoln International Business School researches community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks, and community groups. The group focuses on community-based research in Active Citizenship, Wellbeing, and Community Development. We have led national and international work on community-based learning, community-university partnerships, and strengthening civil society.
Why Is It Important?
Business Schools, and community-based research more generally, are both increasingly being recognised by Policy-makers and Practitioners as having an important role to play in supporting Third Sector, voluntary, and community organisations. This research is part of the commitment the University, College and Business School makes to be an active part of local, national, and international communities and to create impact within society through research. It is also part of the Schools wider agenda of Responsible Business and of engagement with the wider business sector, including Third Sector and non-profit organisations.
How Are We Different?
We build community partnerships e.g. with community-learning providers, health partners, social enterprises, and community groups to foster community engagement and to co-develop research that incorporates community issues and concerns within wider debates.
Group Researchers
Dr Rebecca Herron, Reader
Ms Zoraida Mendiwelso-Bendek,Senior Research Fellow in Citizenship
Prof Ted Fuller, UNESCO Chair on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development
Prof Heather Hughes, Professor of Cultural Heritage Studies
Dr Geeta Lakshmi, Associate Professor
Miss Liz Price, Senior Research Fellow
Dr Agnieszka Rydzik, Senior Lecturer
Prof Marj Mayo, Goldsmiths University
Martin Hodgkinson, Carlton House Consultancy
Dr Jane Watts, NIACE
Professor Agustin Domingo, University of Valencia
Dr Gabi Recknagel, Take Part Network
Thomasin Nicholds, Childrens Links
Paul Carrick, Lincoln City
Dr Jan Schuurman, Max Planck Institute
Robin Wright, Trustee of Magna Vitae
Fr Jonathan Sibley, Facilitator of the Social Issues in the Fens Network
Dr Eliseo Vilalta Perdomo,SeniorVisiting Fellow
Research at Lincoln International Business School
Community Organisation Research Group
The group researches community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks and community groups, focusing on community-based research in Active Citizenship, Wellbeing and Community Development.
Responsible Management Research Group
The group's research focus is responsible management. Its aim is to contribute new knowledge in ways that improve understanding of responsible management as a concept and as practice.
Visitor Economy Research Group
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) concentrates on projects in the areas of tourism, events and leisure.
Marketing Research Group
The Marketing Research Group (MaRG) collates and develops the research calibre of a group of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are contributing to a wide range of marketing-related studies. These include marketing strategies, consumption, consumer culture, consumer behaviour, communications, advertising, digital and social media, brand management, entrepreneurial marketing and consumer technology.
Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group
The group has a growing track record of social and economic development research, including locally, nationally, and internationally funded projects aimed at investigating the role of innovation and entrepreneurship in the developments of regions.
PhD Opportunities
Lincoln International Business School welcomes applications from students wanting to pursue research study at the postgraduate level, offering a range of opportunities to undertake business-related research.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Apprenticeships | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnBusiness, Leadership, and Management Apprenticeships
Developing Strategic Leaders and Managers
Lincoln International Business School works with employers to provide employees with the opportunity to study for a degree while gaining hands-on experience and a professional pathway for future development through a Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship. Funded by the Government and employers, these programmes offer professional recognition by the Chartered Management Institute through the award of Chartered Manager status. The programmes combine work-based and flexible blended-learning through online study and face-to-face workshops.
The Chartered Management Degree Apprenticeship is made for employees by employers and directly benefits the organisation in developing its leaders for the future. The Lincoln International Business School helps our apprentices to be responsible citizens, making the right decisions for positive organisational benefits.
Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA)
Trailblazer' apprenticeship scheme created by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) and higher education providers. Funded by the Government and your employer, this apprenticeship combines work-based learning and business education, which upon successful completion, leads to a degree and professional recognition through the award of Chartered Manager status.", '
Senior Leader Apprenticeship (SLA)
The Senior Leader Apprenticeship (SLA) is designed for leaders who need to understand and operate their business at a strategic level. The SLA is an investment in the organisation as much as it is in the employee. Up-skilling and empowering provides the organisation with an asset no matter what business environment you operate in.
Make the Most of the Apprenticeship Levy
As an organisation, If you already pay into a levy, its about maximising this to the benefit of your organisation and employees, this is an investment that may boost productivity, levels of service and operational efficiencies. Non-Levy Paying Organisations can also benefit by contributing 5% of the cost of a degree apprenticeship, the remaining cost is funded by the government.
Transferring an Apprenticeship Levy
If you are a non-levy paying organisation you are able to receive funding for a degree apprenticeship by using the levy transfer which would mean partnering with a levy paying organisation, who have unspent funding. The transferring employer has the option of transferring up to 25% of their annual levy contribution to another employer.
A levy paying organisation may transfer to such organisations within your supply chain, local charity, key business partners, business within the local area for example. The cost of an apprenticeship will be paid by the levy transfer, helping the employer receiving the funds develop skills within their workforce. However if the funds do not fully meet the cost of an apprenticeship there is the ability toco-invest, which can require a 5% contribution. Here are a couple of links to explain further:
For enquiries on the apprenticeship levy transfer, email us oncmda@lincoln.ac.ukor sla@lincoln.ac.uk
Funded by the Education and Skills Funding Agency
Our Degree Apprenticeships are funded/part-funded by the Education and Skills Funding Agency
Useful Links
Employers are encouraged to use the Government's Recruit an Apprentice tool athttps://www.gov.uk/recruit-apprenticeto post vacancies and manage applications for apprenticeships.
GOV.UK -Guide to the Apprenticeship Levy
GOV.UK -ESFA Funding Rules
Chartered Management Institute -Guide to the CMDA
Contact us
Lincoln International Business SchoolUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN5 7AT
 libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Members | Visitor Economy Research Group | University of LincolnMembers
Public Houses, Beer, Music, Gender, Female Entrepreneurship in Creative Industries,
Deviant Customer Behaviours, Storytelling Methodologies, Services Marketing, Rurality
Community-based Tourism; Destination/tourism management; Social entrepreneurship in tourism
Heritage management; Difficult/contested heritage; Southern Africa, Nationalism, Biography
Live Events and Music Festivals, Culture and Heritage Management
Understanding the Visitor Experience, Consumer Culture, Place & Place Making
Managing People; Contemporary Issues in Management
Inter-cultural Management; Volunteer Management
Consumer Culture, Symbolic Consumption, Acculturation,Brand Management, Impression Management, Cultural Capital, Self-Identity, Tourism and Events
Tourism and Hospitality Employment; Future of Work; Worker Agency; Tourism and Social Justice; Migration; Visual Methods
Tourism & Poverty Reduction, Tourism & Social Inequality, Power, Political Economy of Tourism, Visual Methodologies
Peer-to-peer Accommodation Networks, Sustainability, Experience Design in Tourism, Social and Sustainability Marketing, Intercultural Studies in Tourism
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


["The Chartered Manager Degree is a new 'Trailblazer' apprenticeship scheme created by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI), the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) and higher education providers. Funded by the Government and your employer, this apprenticeship combines work-based learning and business education, which upon successful completion, leads to a degree and professional recognition through the award of Chartered Manager status. This apprenticeship has been designed to provide access to development opportunities for a wide a range of individuals. This includes members of existing work forces and individuals at the start of their career who wish to become professional managers and achieve Chartered Manager status. It is applicable to professional managers from all sectors  the private, public or third sector  and all sizes of organisation.", 'Contact Us Today
The apprenticeship is first and foremost a job with substantial training and the opportunity to develop a range of transferable skills. This is designed to enable your workforce to grow organically whilst combining university study and workplace learning to enable apprentices to gain a full bachelors degree.
The programme offers professional recognition by the CMI through the award of Chartered Manager status, and is designed to ensure that apprentices are equipped with the skills employers need to boost their employment prospects as well as impact the organisation positively.
How You Study
The Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeshipis centred on work-based learning, with modulesdelivered through a flexible blended-learning approach, primarily online but with opportunities for face-to-face workshops. The apprenticeship is underpinned by theBA (Hons) Professional Practice in Leadership & Management.
 professional skills and knowledge within a work-based context, while equipping themwith an awareness of the principles of responsible management and leadership.Apprenticeshave the opportunity to develop the knowledge and skills to enhance their effectiveness as managers and leaders. Work-based-learning aims to encourage the application of theory to work practice. It can involve, for example, thinking critically about changes in the workplace, and being supported in undertaking and reporting on a work-based project that may meet a specific challenge within their organisation.", 'The CMDA has a duration of 3.5-4 years.
How You Are Assesed
Students taking the CMDA will need to comply with the national requirements for degree apprenticeship standards including the end point assessment (EPA) to achieve their degree apprenticeship. The EPA consists of a portfolio of evidence mapped to the CMDA standard, a work-based project, presentation on the project, and an interview, all independently assessed. Modules on the underpinning BA (Hons) Professional Practice in Leadership and Management are mapped to the CMDA standard.
Career Opportunities
The Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeshipis designed for as wide a range of individuals as possible, and to be suitable for those who are, or wish to become, professional managers. This includes individuals who are at the start of their career that wish to become professional managers and achieve Chartered Manager status, as well as those aspiring or existing managers who may already have developed practical experience but who wish to develop their theoretical understanding of management skills further and build further related skills.
How to Apply
For more information on how to apply please contact us.
e:CMDA@lincoln.ac.uk
t:01522 835433
Fees and Funding
Employers:
Businesses in the UK are now required to pay HMRC the apprenticeship levy on a monthly basis through the PAYE system. There is an opportunity for all UK businesses regardless of whether you are a levy-paying employer or not, to benefit from government funding for apprenticeship training. More information on how Apprenticeship funding works can be found here on the Government website. The Apprentice is not responsible for paying any fees associated with an apprenticeship. Fees are paid from the apprenticeship levy which an employer pays into. A non-levy paying employer will be able to co-invest, with the government paying 95% of the fee and the employer contributing 5%.
Levy-Paying Employer:
- From April 2017 the government levy imposed a 0.5% levy on businesses payroll.
- Employers with a payroll in excess of 3m will be affected.
- For every 1 paid in the government will top up by 10%.
Apprentice Levy Calculator:
Calculate Your Levy
Our Fees:
*Course fee may vary, for further information please emailCMDA@lincoln.ac.uk.
*Course fee may vary, for further information please contact us.
Funded by



Useful Links
GOV.UK -Guide to the Apprenticeship Levy
GOV.UK -SFA Funding Rules
Chartered Management Institute -Qualification Library
Lincoln Internation Business School -cmda@lincoln.ac.uk
01522 835433



Undergraduate Courses | Lincoln International Business School | University of Lincoln


How it Works | University of LincolnIn this section
A Tailored Approach
The University of Lincoln has a long and prestigious history of work-based distance learning provision, tailoring its approach to the needs of busy professionals and the latest industry requirements.
Our approach is simple:
Each work-based distance learning programme takes between 18-24 months to complete, depending on your personal circumstances and the time you are able to commit.
How You Study
As a distance learner you will undertake independent study, guided by expert tutors who will help you prepare for and follow up on topics in greater depth.
Each of our Work Based Distance Learning programmes is divided into five or six modules, which are accessed via our online virtual learning environment, Blackboard. You will work through each module in turn, at a pace that you set, until you complete your degree programme. Your final grade will reflect your performance on each module, including a dissertation on a subject of your choosing.
Module assignments take the form of essays, portfolios, reflective logs and reports, with each being assessed by your Module Tutor against the learning outcomes of the module you are undertaking.
There is a Blackboard site specific to each module that includes your Study Guide, a Module Guide and the Harvard Referencing Guide as well as other resources. Course reading materials are available in electronic formats compatible with most devices from our vast digital library collection.
We understand that life can get in the way, which is why our programmes have built-in flexibility. If you need to pause your studies at any point, or need an extension on an assignment, we can usually accommodate.

How You Are Assessed
With no final exam, assessment is continuous throughout your course of study.
Each programme has specific learning outcomes, which you will find in your module and course documentation. You will need to familiarise yourself with these outcomes to understand what you are expected to know and do to achieve academic success.
You will be sent more detailed information about assessment in your Welcome Pack.

How You Are Supported
Should you have any questions about course content, reading materials or how to approach your study, your dedicated Module Tutors will be able to help. In addition, you can establish informal peer-learning groups with your fellow students on social media or via Blackboards online forums.
Students who make regular contact with their Programme Leader and Module Tutors and submit drafts of their assignments in a timely fashion usually achieve higher grades and have a better learner experience. As a distance learning student undertaking individual study, it is your responsibility to ensure you know what the course requirements are and when your assignments are due.
We suggest updating your tutor on your progress once a fortnight, being sure to flag any issues at an early stage. Should your circumstances change for any reason, or if you begin to feel overwhelmed, please contact your tutor. Your tutor is there to help you.
Remember that you have encountered and successfully managed challenging situations over the course of your career. Your main challenges will be balancing study, work and life commitments, and re-engagement with academia.
Learn more about student support

How To Contact Your Tutors
Your Programme Leader and Module Tutors are friendly and approachable. They are there to support you throughout your programme of study.
Before you commence your degree, your Programme Leader will send you a welcome email with some information to get you started. This is the email address you will use to contact them once your programme is underway.
You will find your Module Tutors email addresses on the relevant module sites on Blackboard. In the first instance, tutors should be contacted by email, however most tutors are happy to talk with you via email, telephone, Skype or other technologies by prior arrangement. It is even possible to meet some of our tutors in person at the university.


Lincoln International Business School | College of Arts Social Sciences and Humanities | University of LincolnLincoln International Business School
Welcome to Lincoln International Business School
Lincoln International Business School is dedicated to working with students and organisations to find solutions that enhance the contribution of business to society. For our students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness. For organisations, that means helping them to succeed through effective governance, responsible leadership, improved productivity, and organisational innovation.
We takeparticular pride in our commitment to thePrinciples for Responsible Management, which underpin our teaching, scholarship, and research, and in our innovative approaches to education that treat our learners as partners in the learning journey. Above all, we are international not only in name, but also in our culturally diverse organisation, our globally representative student body, and our inclusive approach to education and learning.
Development Economics Conference
24-26 June 2024

Take Your Next Step
By providing our students with opportunities for global experiences and industry trips and placements, our degrees aim to create well-rounded graduates for the next generation of business.
Undergraduate Courses
Our wide range of undergraduate courses cover areas such as business, management, marketing, advertising, finance, economics, and banking.
Explore Our Courses
Study a Postgraduate Course
s degrees, alongside a wealth of staff expertise for those considering doctoral study.", 'Explore Our Courses
Distance Learning and Military Courses
We have a range of course options for those who are interested in developing their CV or taking the next step in their career. Many of these courses give you the flexibility to study around your other commitments.
Distance Learning
s degrees, executive development courses, and work-based distance learning qualifications, we have plenty of options to push your career forwards.", 'Find out More
Military Programmes
The suite of military programmes we offer are designed to allow serving members of all three services and MOD civilians to achieve academic recognition form their extensive work experience and formal training.
Explore Our Courses
Broaden Your Horizons
Lincoln International Business School offers students opportunities to broaden their horizons by exploring different countries and culture through our Global Experiences programme. These experiences can allow students to build a range of skills which employers look for.
Students who choose to undertake a global experience can access support from our Global Opportunities Team. The team can help students with Visa applications, pre-departure support, and funding information.
Research
Academics from across our School are conducting exciting research designed to benefit businesses and policy-maker and inform our teaching. Current areas of research include marketing, community organisation, and responsible management.
Our Departments
Our Lincoln International Business School is divided into three departments which bring together expert academics and industry experienced professionals. You can also explore our staff list to find individual members of staff.
Department of Accountancy, Finance and Economics
The department is home to a team of world-renowned academics who are experts in their field.
Department of Management
The department using its research to improve business leadership and management.
Department of Marketing and Tourism
The Marketing, Tourism, and Events department is made up of internationally connected staff who aim to provide high quality learning experiences and development opportunities for students.


Professional Practice Leadership Management | CMDA | University of LincolnBA (Hons) Professional Practice in Leadership and Management

Award:BA (Hons) Professional Practice in Leadership and Management
Full-time Duration:3-4 years
School:Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus
Validation Status:Validated
Contact Us Today
 capacity to successfully manage people, projects, operations and services. It looks to develop all aspects of management knowledge and skills such as decision making, managing and developing people, building teams, leading change, project management, financial management, marketing, clear communication, innovation, and developing stakeholder relations.", 'The degree has been designed for as wide a range of individuals as possible and is studied as part of theChartered Management Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA). This includes individuals who are at the start of their career that wish to become professional managers, as well as aspiring or existing managers who may already have developed practical experience but who wish to develop their theoretical understanding of management and leadership skills further.
The BA (Hons) Professional Practice in Leadership & Management focuses on work-based learning, with modules delivered through a flexible blended-learning approach, primarily online but with opportunities for face-to-face workshops. The programme combines academic and practical skills and students can gain value from real world application of theories and techniques based around their workplace.
Work-based learning aims to enable the application of theory to work practice. This can involve, for example, thinking critically about changes in the workplace, and being supported in undertaking and reporting on a work-based project meeting a specific challenge within their organisation. The work-based projects, and other assignments are designed to involve negotiation between tutors, students and the employer with the aim of meeting the needs of students and their organisation.
All modules, with the exception of the final negotiated work-based module, are approximately 300 learning hours. The final module is 600 learning hours and is designed to give students the opportunity to undertake an extended work-based project.
Communication and Professional Practice
The basis of sound management within an organisation is effective communication at every level, and with a variety of people. The aim of this module is to empower students to develop a range of communication and interpersonal skills necessary to communicate and engage effectively with others. Emphasis will be placed on developing the ability to communicate and engage in differing contexts, including groups, and overcoming barriers to communication.
Management of Business Finance
This module aims to enable students to understand and demonstrate financial strategies, including budgets, financial management and accounting, and how to provide financial reports. There will be consideration of approaches to procurement and contracting, and legal requirements as well as the consideration of the commercial context in an organisational setting and how this changes over time.
Managing & Developing People
This module will focus on how to recruit, manage and develop people using inclusive talent management approaches. There will be consideration of how to use HR systems and processes to ensure legal requirements, health and safety, and well-being needs are met. It is important for an effective leader and manager to be able to build teams, empower and motivate others, to set goals and manage performance; these skills can be explored and developed during the module.
Personal Effectiveness for Leadership
This module is designed to enable students to become self-aware and recognise different learning styles, how to use emotional and social intelligence, and understand their impact on others. There is an introduction to techniques for managing time, setting goals, prioritising activities and undertaking forward planning in a business environment. An understanding of stress management and personal well-being will be considered along with an exploration of ones core values and drivers. Students can reflect on their own performance, identifying and acting on learning and development needs through the creation and implementation of a personal development plan. There will be an introduction to creating a professional portfolio of evidence.
Developing Collaborative Relationships
Stakeholders are individuals, groups or organisations that are affected by the activity of a business. This module is designed to provide students with the opportunity to develop an understanding of the principles of stakeholder, customer and supplier management. There is analysis of the different approaches, and identification of strategies for improvement. Students can examine methods for shaping common purpose, and evaluate models of conflict management and resolution and how to apply these. There will be examination of negotiation and influencing skills, collaborative working, and contributing to a team environment.
Digital Business and New Technologies in the Workplace
This module aims to develop an understanding of approaches to innovation and digital technologies and their impact on organisations, and how their application can be used for organisational improvement and development. Students have the chance to learn about innovation and digital technologys impact on data and knowledge management for analysing business decision-making. Students can develop the skill of being able to identify services/organisational improvements and opportunities for innovation and growth, using qualitative and quantitative analysis of information and data and benchmarking against others.
Global and Local Markets
This module aims to develop an understanding of marketing and sales theories and how to create marketing and sales strategies. There will be a consideration of how to segment and target relevant markets and customers from a global and local perspective. There will be the analysis of opportunities and ways to market, and awareness of the implementation of a sales and marketing plan, using creative approaches to develop solutions to meet customer needs.
Project Management & Professional Practice
This module aims to enable students to understand the key stages of a project and undertake a project within an organisation to achieve organisational objectives, and effectively manage resources. Students can consider and evaluate widely recognised project management tools, risk management models and risk benefit analysis. Students are expected to negotiate a project within the area of leadership and management and independently research theories relevant to their chosen project.
Effective Leadership
The aim of this module is to consider different inclusive management and leadership styles and models. Students have the chance to identify their own leadership style and to understand how to adapt to a variety of situations. Mentoring and coaching approaches to develop teams and support people will be evaluated, and the skills of influencing and persuading relating to personal interactions. Types of organisational culture will be explored, diversity management reviewed and how organisational purposes and values can be effectively communicated in an organisation. Students can examine the role of 360 degree reviews, and undertake their own review.
Negotiated Work Based Project
The specific content and approach for this module are negotiated in order to meet the requirements of individual professional development and organisational development needs. The negotiated work based project gives students the opportunity - as leaders in an organisation - to initiate, lead and drive change within the company. As the final major project within the programme, there is a requirement to negotiate outcomes that are agreed by the student, their employer and their tutor. Students should normally undertake a project based on an agreed business problem that forms part of their role and agree the project title and support arrangements with their employer and tutor. In the written project proposal students are expected to identify the aims, methodology and resources required for the project, and produce a plan and criteria for evaluation to be agree with their employer and tutor. By undertaking the project students should be meeting personal and professional objectives, and the organisation should benefit from the implementation. They will also be expected to demonstrate their ability to use critical analysis, evaluation, problem solving, decision making and synthesis.
Organisational Strategy and Managing Change
Organisational strategy and operational change are closely linked i.e. strategic goals are ultimately achieved through the successful delivery of plans at an operational level. This module is designed to support the development of organisational strategies and plans and the development and delivery of operational plans including setting targets, managing resources and monitoring and measuring outcomes to deliver operational effectiveness, efficiency and excellence. Change Management models can be explored, and strategies to enable effective change looked at. There will be consideration of sustainability, risk management, quality assurance models. Students can also develop knowledge concerning Corporate Social Responsibility and its impact on organisational performance.
The modules of the BA (Hons) Professional Practice Leadership and Management are mapped to the outcomes in the CMDA standard. Individual modules will contribute to the on-programme assessment of knowledge, skills and behaviour outcomes en-route to the final end point assessment. Students are expected to create a portfolio of evidence to support this. The work-based project is a substantial piece of work undertaken within the final year of the apprenticeship.
Achievement of the apprenticeship will depend on apprentices successfully completing a number of assessment activities. The methods used aim to ensure that apprentices are assessed across the whole of the published Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship Standard.
As the underpinning degree programme for the Chartered Management Degree Apprenticeship, this programme is designed for as wide a range of individuals as possible, and to be suitable for those who are, or wish to become, professional managers. This includes individuals who are at the start of their career that wish to become professional managers and achieve Chartered Manager status, as well as those aspiring or existing managers who may already have developed practical experience but who wish to develop their theoretical understanding of management skills further and build further related skills.
Employers
Businesses in the UK are now required to pay HMRC the apprenticeship levy on a monthly basis through the PAYE system. There is an opportunity for all UK businesses regardless of whether you are a levy-paying employer or not, to benefit from government funding for apprenticeship training. More information on how Apprenticeship funding works can be found here on thegov.uk website.
Levy-Paying Employer
Our Fees
For further information or assistance please emailCMDA@lincoln.ac.uk.
For further information or assistance please contact us.


Support | University of LincolnIn this section
Supporting You From Day One
As a Distance Learning student at the University of Lincoln you get all the advantages of online, flexible study alongside a support service comparable with on-campus programmes.
Our team will be there to support you by email, telephone or Skype or other technologies by arrangement from the moment you start your application, throughout your degree right on through to graduation.
When You Apply
If you need to know more about the application process or your eligibility for any of ourWork Based Distance Learning programmes, our dedicated admissions team are on hand to help.
Find out more about the application process
Before You Start
Prior to your online or physical induction, the University of Lincoln Business School team will send through a Welcome Pack containing detailed programme information and everything you need to know before commencing your study. If you have any questions, our team will be available to answer them.
The pack includes your email account information, a programme handbook, a guide to using our virtual learning environment, Blackboard, a Harvard referencing guide and key contact details.
Read more about Work-Based Distance Learning at the University of Lincoln
Induction Week
You can choose whether to attend your induction at our campus in the heart of the historic city of Lincoln, or attend online.
As an on-campus attendee you will meet your fellow students and get to know your course tutors, while learning more about your programme and the university. As an online attendee, you will have the opportunity to watch video recordings of induction week presentations through our virtual learning environment, Blackboard, and learn all you need to know from your tutors and support team via email, telephone, Skype, or other technology by arrangement.
While You Study
We understand that structure is the key to degree success, which is why our programmes are carefully designed to progress your learning in a way that keeps you on track.
Not only will you be supported to achieve your degree by yourProgramme Leader and Module Tutors, you will benefit from the dedicated course Librarians expertise, and receive technical assistance from our ICT Services team should you need it.


Distance Learning | University of LincolnIn this section
Work-focused, Flexible Distance Learning
top-up' degree programmes are designed to interface with your role, enhance work-based projects and can be completed part-time from anywhere in the world within 18-24 months.", 'The University of Lincoln has beenproviding work-based distance learning courses for a number of years and we have an experienced team that can support you from the point of application to thecompletion of your degree. With a suite of degree programmes available for working professionals across several industry specialisms, we aim to provide a highly flexible approach to enable our distance learners to balance part-time degree-level study around work and family life.
top-up' degrees, industry professionals can translate relevant work-based experience into credits equivalent to the first two years of an undergraduate degree.", 'Our distance learning courses are underpinned by academic expertise of specialists from our Lincoln International Business School and accredited by recognised UK industry bodies such as the Chartered Management Institute (CMI).
Find out More about Work-Based Distance Learning  Watch our Latest Information Session
Discover what its like to study as a Work-Based Distance Learner (WBDL), why the University of Lincoln is a great choice, how you are supported from application through to graduation and beyond, and much more from our experienced Work-Based team. Choose an information session below to watch on-demand, and if youve any further questions were always happy to help, simply contact us on askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk, ormpg@lincoln.ac.ukfor enquiries about Military WBDL programmes.

Online Work-Based Distance Learning Degrees for experienced professionals needing flexibility whilst working - discover more here

Online Work-Based Distance Learning Degrees for the Military - discover more here
Programmes
Explore our range of work-based distance learning programmes and decide which specialism is right for you and your ambitions.
How It Works
Learn more about Lincoln's approach to distance learning, designed to help students balance part-time study around work and other commitments.
Accreditations
Several of our distance learning courses are accredited by recognised industry bodies, reflecting their industry-focussed design.
Admissions
Check the admissions process, entry requirements, and potential start dates for our work-based distance learning 'top-up' degree courses.
Student Support
Explore the support networks in place to help distance learning students at the University of Lincoln realise their goals.
Meet The Team
Our Lincoln International Business School has a long and proud track record of delivering work-based distance learning. Meet the team behind our provision.

Online Courses
s Degrees Designed For Working Professionals", "Our online Master's degrees in Management have been specifically created for busy working professionals from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds. No previous business or management experience is required, and they can be studied anytime, anywhere, and on any mobile or desktop device. Learn how to manage effectively, understand how to lead teams and function successfully, while developing as a professional.", 'Executive Development
Lincoln International Business School aims to provide a supported and sustainable platform for leadership and management to organisations within the Greater Lincolnshire area and beyond.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Beyond Boundaries | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnBeyond Boundaries is a public lectures series by Lincoln International Business School. The lectures invite inspirational members of our society to part wisdom to help inspire and motivate. Our aim is to engage our audience with meaningful life stories, that willprovide lessons and energise.
Our speakers come from a variety of backgrounds and experience which will help to enrich our lives through their experiences.These are no ordinary stories because these are no ordinary people.
Previous Speakers

Rebecca Long-Bailey MP
Member of Parliament for Salford & Eccles. Shadow Secretary of State for Business Energy & Industrial Strategy.
Rebecca Long-Bailey is a British Labour Party politician from Salford. Rebecca was elected as the MP for Salford and Eccles, and has been proudly serving the community since. Since 2017, Rebecca has been the Shadow Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, and is responsible for setting out Labour policies on how to revolutionize our energy system, rebuild our communities, and support local businesses and their workforces. During this lecture, Rebecca talks about Labour's industrial strategy and the role of Lincolnshire within it.


Postgraduate Webinars | Postgraduate Programmes | University of LincolnJoin Lincoln International Business School for their series of summer webinars focussing on their exciting Masters Programmes.
Through June, July and August we will be featuring live webinarson our YouTube channel from the programme leaders of six of our postgraduate degrees. The webinars will feature the following Masters degrees; MSc Governance, MSc Human Resource Management, MSc Marketing, MSc Project Management, MSc International Business Management and MSc Management.
The webinars will be approximately 20 minutes long with 10 mins for Q&A at the end of the presentation, so you have the opportunity to quiz our team about their Masters degree programmes.
This is your opportunity to join us from wherever you are and for you to discover some of the postgraduate courses that Lincoln International Business School has to offer. To keep up to date with our webinars follow us onLinkedIn, where well be publishing the date and time of each of our webinars over the coming weeks.
Arent able to join us live? Not a problem. Well be uploading the videos to YouTube so youll have the opportunity to catch up with the webinars whenever its convenient for you, then if youve got a question feel free to get in contact with us over the phone or by email.
Were looking forward to having you join us for our summer webinar series.
MSc Governance Webinar
Recorded live on Tuesday 12 June 2018

For more information about our MSc Governance programme please click here
MSc Hman Resource Management Webinar
Jan Mehmet, Programme Leader for our Part Time MSc Human Resource Management (HRM) degree as talks about how the Lincoln International Business School HRM programmes, full and part time provide students with the opportunity to learn how to develop and implement creative and strategic HRM solutions that drive organisational performance.
Professional accreditation, industry links and a business focus make this programme ideal if you are currently involved in human resources or are interested in pursuing a career in this area.
With distinct academic and practitioner perspectives you will have the chance to discover new ways of managing people in the modern workplace, taking into consideration people development and employee relations and understanding the broader business concerns of senior management.

For more information about ourfull time MSc Human Resource Management programme please click here
For more information about ourpart timeMSc Human Resource Management programmeplease click here
MSc International Business
Programme Leader Kevin Blanchard talks us through MSc International Business at the University of Lincoln.



Military Programmes | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnMilitary Programmes
University of Lincoln
At the University of Lincoln, we have a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the Armed Forces. These courses are ideal if you are seeking to gain a new qualification, improve your management skills to progress in their existing careers, or prepare for the next step.
Our teaching takes a holistic development approach, placing you, as the knowledge expert of your role, at the centre of our teaching process. In acknowledging your service to our country, we offer a bursary that provides a significant reduction to the programme fee.
We are proud of military partnerships, and as an approved learning provider under the Armed Forces Enhanced Learning Credits Scheme (ELCAS), we also have a number of existing military programmes. These allow serving members of all three Services, as well as their MOD civilian colleagues, to achieve academic recognition.
We are also the first university to achieve the accolade of the partnerson Scheme. This award recognises private and public sector employers that pledge, demonstrate and advocate support for the Defence and Armed Forces community, and meet the objectives of the Armed Forces Covenant.
For our full range of Undergraduate and Postgraduate courses, head to our courses below.
Work-Based Distance Learning
Our military programmes are designed to allow serving members of all three services, as well as their MOD civilian colleagues, to achieve academic recognition from their extensive work experience and formal training. Suitably qualified officers, SNCO, JNCOs, and junior ranks are invited to apply. Applicants need to be in some form of managerial role to support their place on the programme, this does not necessarily mean in charge of manpower, this could also be resource management. In addition, previous serving members of the three services are also entitled to enrol through a tailored military programme route.
An approved learning provider under the Armed Forces Enhanced Learning Credits (ELC) scheme, the University of Lincoln has invested more than ten years of research and development to evolve our military degree programmes. Recognising the significant operational experience and training of military and civil service personnel, the programmes are open to all suitably qualified and experienced officers. Our programme suite is designed to fit in around your busy schedule so that you can choose when and where you study and make the most of your down time. As long as you have a reliable internet connection you can study from anywhere in the world. Typically, students take 18 to 24 months to complete their studies and exit with an honours degree, a level five diploma in Leadership and Management, and Chartered Manager status from the CMI. However, flexibility is a key feature built into our programme suite so students are able to formally interrupt their studies, for a period of up to 2 years, in light of deployment or other commitments.
If you want to explore more about the credit you can receive for your military training and experience, our programmes or to simply explore your options please contact our dedicated team.
Benefits for Students

Have the flexibility to whenever and wherever is most convenient for you.

Use your Enhanced Learning Credits to make courses more affordable

Transfer your military skills and experience to the civilian marketplace

Integrated module aimed at equipping students with essential skills for study.

A number of our courses are accredited.
Benefits for the Ministry of Defence

Distance Learning is conducted almost entirely off-campus

Realise measurable operational improvements and budgetary savings from student work.

Equip staff with skills, understanding, and knowledge that can be put to immediate use.

Delivery teams include a number of serving and former MoD staff.
Our Courses
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Open Military)

BA (Hons) Business Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Human Resources Management (Military)

FdSc Operations Management

A number of funding schemes are available to assist military students in financing their studies.
These include:
All of these schemes are administered by the Enhanced Learning Credits Administration Service (ELCAS). Further information on eligibility and entitlements are available from your education staffs and theMODs ELCAS information web site.
The University of Lincoln is a registered ELCAS provider: 1283
8 January 2024
15 April 2024
23 September 2024





Military Enquiriesmpg@lincoln.ac.uk


Lincolnshire Tourism Observatory | Research | University of LincolnAbout
The Lincolnshire Tourism Observatoryis an initiative within the Department of Tourism, Languages and Marketing. It has been established to provide expertise, produce high-quality research and generate evidence-driven analysis of tourism-related data with the aim of supporting the Lincolnshire visitor economy, informing policy debates and assisting local stakeholders with data-informed decision making.
Vision
The Lincolnshire Tourism Observatory aims to support the development of the Lincolnshire visitor economy in the following ways:
Steering Group
For more information, contact the chair of Lincolnshire Tourism Observatory Dr. Agnieszka Rydzik (arydzik@lincoln.ac.uk)
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Programmes | Distance Learning | University of LincolnChoose Your Distance Learning Course
Our portfolio of work-based distance learning courses are underpinned by the academic expertise and student support on which we pride ourselves at the University of Lincoln. Whether you are looking to progress within your current industry, or expand your management credentials to open up new opportunities, our industry-aligned programmes are designed to fit around busy working lives.
Course Options
Business Management - BA (Hons)
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
Engineering Management - BSc (Hons)
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
Human Resource Management - BSc (Hons)
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management.
Logistics Management - BSc (Hons)
The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management programme has been designed to develop students' capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.
Operations Management - FdSc
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability.


School Staff | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnLincoln International Business School Staff


Sean Ramsden | University of LincolnIn this section
Sean Ramsden is the founder and CEO of Ramsden International  the UKs leading international wholesaler of British food and drink. Ramsden International supply 24,000 grocery products from hundreds of manufacturers into more than 650 retailers in 133 countries worldwide, with a turnover of more than 50m. They have sales offices in South Africa, Hong Kong and Dubai, supported by a team of around 100 in Grimsby, North East Lincolnshire. Sean has led Ramsden International to win three Queens Awards for Enterprise in International Trade, plus scores of other business awards, and is himself the winner of numerous Entrepreneurship awards, as well as a regular media commentator and speaker on the subject of exports. In addition to his executive role at Ramsden International, Sean is a Non-Executive Director at the British Chambers of Commerce, Trustee-Director of the Institute of Export and International Trade, Trustee of Borough Market, Member of the DEFRA Agri-Food Export Forum, and sits on the Management Committee of the Food and Drink Exporters Association, the Council of the International Chamber of Commerce (London branch) and the Hull and Humber Chamber of Commerce Council. He is a graduate of Cambridge University and an alumni of the Harvard Business School OPM programme.



[]


Howard Gannaway | University of LincolnIn this section
Following an early career in teaching, Howard joined the financial services industry where he became a key figure in developing the technical processes and client communications policies of the emerging profession of financial planning. This involved adapting complex technical financial information into terms that members of the public could understand and act upon.
Howard formed his own financial planning practice in 1989 and was awarded a Fellowship of the Institute of Financial Planning. He was also one of the first in the UK to qualify for the international Certified Financial PlannerTM licence
In 2004 Howard became Research Fellow in Financial Education at NIACE (National Institute of Adult Continuing Education) and wrote widely on financial learning including professional journals, learning materials and web content, financial trade press features. An important part of this work involved working with the then Financial Services Authority and other partners to develop the UK Financial Capability Strategy.
As a long-standing NED of Doncaster Chamber of Commerce and local Business Links, in 2010 he was called on to become Chief Executive at Doncaster Chamber of Commerce, where he was responsible for stabilising the Chamber and re-engineering relationships with local and national stakeholders following the 2008 financial and economic crisis. He also held full responsibility to the Board for securing and leading a number of business support programmes commissioned by European Regional Development Fund, Department of Work and Pensions and Doncaster Council among others.
He returned as a Senior Associate of NIACE, subsequently, the Learning & Work Institute, where he has provided technical analysis and advice on 24+ Advanced Learning Loans for the Skills Funding Agency. He has also created learning resources for Experian on managing credit and for the Department of Health to help professional support workers dealing with young adult carers and their finances. His background and experience in business is also used to support projects in skills and economic development. He is a member of the Money and Pensions Service national steering group on workplace financial capability. He is a Chartered Fellow of the Institute of Securities and Investment and also holds a current international Certified Financial PlannerTM designation.
Howard has joined the Lincoln International Business School to help it become the global first choice for gaining the professional qualities for aspiring world business leaders.



Research Showcase | Research | University of LincolnLincoln International Business School 2022 Research Showcase
We are delighted to present the Lincoln International Business School Research Showcase Day for 2022 with an engaging schedule of invited key notes.With presentations on leadership in Laos, consumption and cultural capital, management and entrepreneurship in Nigeria, Bomber Command and Reimagining Lincolnshire, to name but a few, it promises to be a great event, showcasing what is best about LIBS research and how it informs our teaching.These sessions will be available both virtually and in person with parallel paper presentations, recordings of which will be made available after the event so that you can enjoy them at your leisure.u202f
Prof Simon Lilley -Director of Research,Lincoln International Business School

View our 2022 Research Showcase Programme
Showcase Presentations
Keynote Session
Becoming phu nam and other stories: Researching leadership practices in Laos and the ethics of cross-cultural engagement.
Presented byPeter Case
University of the West of England, Bristol,
and James Cook University, Australia.
Keynote Session
Getting published in top ranked academic journals, avoiding pitfalls, tips for success and making your successes count.
Presented byScott McCabe
Co-editor in chief, Annals of Tourism and Nottingham University
Cognitive diversity and team creativity: Effects of demographic faultlines
Emplacement as Responsibilisation: Advancing Learning for Impact
Theorising Responsible Anticipation
Be Bold, Be Innovative, Be a Digital Hub: A Guide to Setting up and Running a Digital Hub
Presented by Dr Jane Deville - Research Fellow, Lincoln International Business Schoo
Emotional Labour and Burnout in Academic-Managers subgroup imbalance and information elaboration
Presented by Amy Mumby - Academic Lead in Work-based Distance Learning / Associate Prof / PL, Lincoln International Business School.
Inclusive or Exclusive? Exploring the experiences of women at work who have been treated for gynaecological cancers
Presented by Jan Mehmet - Doctoral Researcher and External Examiner, Lincoln International Business School.
Let me tell you a story
Presented by Dr Joanna Smith - Head of Department, Department of Management, Lincoln International Business School.
Beyond cultural instrumentality in migrant integration: Exploring the concept of Total Diaspora Cultural Capital
Presented by Dr Dieu Hack-Polay - Associate Professor / Programme Leader, Lincoln International Business School.
Funding, Development & Support  What the Research Development & Industrial Partnership Teams can do for you
Presented by Lyndsey Kemsley - Research Development Manager, Research and Industrial Partnerships, University of Lincoln
Keynote Session
Dancing with profit: the dynamics of organizational identity and an ubiquitous public measure
Presented byYuval Millo
University of Warwick
A comparison between personal tutoring in the UK & China
Presented by Alison Raby - Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader, Lincoln International Business School
Challenges of teaching and engaging Chinese students - a tutors perspective
Presented by Karen Burrows - Senior Lecturer in Work Based Distance Learning, Lincoln International Business School
What are the learning experiences of refugee doctors re-qualifying to work in the National Health Service (NHS) in Great Britain as doctors? An exploratory study
Presented by Fiona McManus - Lecturer, Lincoln International Business School
The UK working musician: Introducing the Craft Work Play Model
Presented by Dr Victoria Ellis-Vowles - Senior Lecturer/Programme Leader, Lincoln International Business School
The Hospitality Now! initiative: Changing the culture of student employment in hospitality
Presented by Dr Agnieszka Rydzik - Senior Lecturer, Lincoln International Business School
Evolving Consumption and Cultural Capital for Self-presentation in the Workplace
Presented by Dr Connie Mak - Lecturer in Marketing and Advertising, Lincoln International Business School
From Hypernormalisation of Workplace Inequality to Dehumanisation: A way out for Human Resource Management
Presented by Dr John Mendy - Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader, Lincoln International Business School
The Business of Empire: Britains Crime Against Humanity
Presented by Dr Andy Brookes - Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader, Lincoln International Business School
The key drivers that have fuelled the need for implementing sustainability initiatives within the Qatar oil and gas sector
Presented by Dr Redouane Sarrakh - Research Associate in Sustainable Supply Chains for a Greener Economy, Lincoln International Business School
Keynote Session
Psychological Inequalities in Organisations
Presented byDr Edina Dci
Associate Professor at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (VU Amsterdam) and Director VU Sustainability Leadership Hub.
Scarecrows, Gremlins, and Lack of Moral Fibre in Bomber Command veteran narratives
Presented by Dr Dan Ellin - Archivist - Content, Lincoln International Business School
Bomber County, does its World War Two aviation history have a future in the 21st Century?
Presented by Caterina Scott - Doctoral Researcher, Lincoln International Business School
Tourist experiences during the pandemic; the application of the Orchestra model
Presented by Dr Samira Zare - Lecturer in Marketing and Advertising, Lincoln International Business School
Illuminating the Blind-Spot of Entrepreneurial Strategy Creation: Towards a Tacit Articulation of Marketing Expertise
Presented by Dr Barry Ardley - Visiting Fellow Lincoln International Business School
Developing Prosocial Behaviour in Entrepreneurs
Presented by Maureen OCallaghan - Doctoral Researcher, University of Lincoln
A critical analysis of stakeholders conceptualizations of graduate employability and its impacts on graduate development in SME businesses in Greater Lincolnshire
Presented by Lee McHugh - Lecturer / Doctoral Researcher, Lincoln International Business School
Team Role Inventories in Managing Project Success in Nigerian Construction SMEs
Presented by Kayode Adewole - Doctoral Researcher, Lincoln International Business School
Entrepreneurial engagement with customers and communities through digitalisation in Covid-19: With references to African women entrepreneurs in the UK
Presented by Dr Jialin Hardwick - Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader, Lincoln International Business School
Entrepreneurial legacy & Succession: An investigation of Succession Planning and the Sustainability of Some Selected Family Small and Medium Enterprises in Nigeria
Presented by Kayode Abraham Mayah - Doctoral Researcher, Lincoln International Business School
Closing Plenary Session
Diverse City: Reimagining Lincoln
Presented byDr Victoria Araj
Post-Doctoral Researcher and Public Engagement Associate,Lincoln International Business School
Find out more about research at Lincoln
Explore Our Research
Through our research, we strive to change society for the better - whether that is connecting individuals and communities through shared local heritage, or contributing to international efforts to address global grand challenges such as climate change.
Research at Lincoln International Business School
Staff Search
Find out more about Lincoln International Business School's individual academics and their research specialisms by searching our Staff Directory. 
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Clive Vacher | University of LincolnIn this section
Clive is an industrialist who has served as Chief Executive Officer of De La Rue, the world's leading currency and authentication provider, since October 2019. In this role, he is leading the turnaround of the 200-year-old, 500 million turnover, 2500-person listed company.
Clive started his industrial career in 1998 with a 6-year tenure at Pratt and Whitney jet engines in CT, USA, culminating in him solving the corporations biggest performance problem. In 2005, he was appointed Executive Vice President for Rolls-Royce, with responsibility for the design and manufacture of all of the companys jet engine combustion modules and structural casings. This required the management of a global supply chain and manufacturing facilities, the design and introduction of radical new technologies, and the leadership of global risk and revenue design/build partnerships.
In 2009, Clive joined General Dynamics as Vice President and Managing Director of the companys Wheeled Military Vehicle division, profitably growing the business to over 500 million revenue.
He has also performed a successful turnaround of B/E Aerospaces Aircraft Cabin Interior business and taken Lincoln-based Dynex Semiconductor private, realising a 10x gain to shareholders.
Clive is passionate about lifelong learning, and is impressed with the breadth and depth of courses that LIBS offers. He has extensive international business experience, and has graduated from universities in the UK and USA. Clive is very keen to provide advice to help LIBS in its quest to become a leading global business school, as well as to help current staff and students with international business advice. He is excited about being part of a business school with so much runway in front of it.



Admissions | University of LincolnIn this section
Management Degrees For Experienced Professionals
As a student on one of our distance learning programmes, you will automatically benefit from formal academic recognition equivalent to the first two years of a full-time degree.
For this reason, to qualify for entry, you must be able to demonstrate a strong drive to succeed, significant work experience and have relevant academic qualifications.
Entry Requirements:
We may also accept candidates with a level 4 qualification alongside professional body membership under certain conditions.
If you are unsure of your suitability for the degree, please contact our Admissions team.
Application Deadlines and Programme Start Dates
How To Apply
For more information, and details on how to apply for your chosen programme, please contact us.


Ben Hill | University of LincolnIn this section
Ben Hill is part of the Senior Leadership team at Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery Ltd based in Lincoln and is responsible for Global Sales and Project Execution. Ben is originally from Lincoln and has worked for Siemens for over 20yrs since graduating from Huddersfield University.
Ben has held several positions within Siemens in the UK and overseas including Australia and Sweden and worked extensively with Siemens customers around the globe. Ben is passionate about education and helping students get the very best start in life and reaching their full potential. In addition to being a member of the Advisory Board, Ben is Chair of Governors at a local inner city school and has been involved in several collaborative initiatives between Siemens and the University.
Ben has joined the Lincoln Business School to help the University develop the best and most resilient industry ready graduates in an increasingly competitive and disruptive world.




Publications | Visitor Economy Research Group | University of LincolnPublications
2024
2023

2022

2021

2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015


VERG archive | Visitor Economy Research Group | University of LincolnWhat Are We Doing?
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) was launched in March 2015. It aims to harness the research energies of a number of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are working in the areas of tourism, events, and leisure. 
Large-scale projects associated with the group include: research for the Lincoln City Council on visitor satisfaction at, and the economic impact of, the Lincoln Christmas Market, and participation in the preparations to launch the International Bomber Command Centre in Lincoln.Our aim is to foster an ethos of research activity by:
Group Researchers
Community Organisation Research Group
The group researches community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks and community groups, focusing on community-based research in Active Citizenship, Wellbeing and Community Development.
Marketing and Supply Chain Research Group
The group develops knowledge which supports sustainable value for market, chain and network stakeholders. Research concerns value chains (supplier, customer and consumer) and the building of social and resource sustainability within networks.
Responsible Management Research Group
The group's research focus is responsible management. Its aim is to contribute new knowledge in ways that improve understanding of responsible management as a concept and as practice.
Lincoln Economics and Finance Research Group
The group brings together academics, graduate students, and a diverse network of collaborators, with the aim to facilitate the creation and diffusion of rigorous and policy-relevant research, within the University, the local community, and the society at large.
Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group
The group has a growing track record of social and economic development research, including locally, nationally, and internationally funded projects aimed at investigating the role of innovation and entrepreneurship in the developments of regions.
PhD Opportunities
Lincoln International Business School welcomes applications from students wanting to pursue research study at the postgraduate level, offering a range of opportunities to undertake business-related research.
Research at LIBS


Executive Venue Hire | Executive Development | University of LincolnSituated in the heart of the city of Lincoln, the custom-built Executive Development Centre is ideally placed for a wide range of events. With spacious modern rooms in addition to an informal breakout area, the Executive Development Centre a flexible and versatile venue for organisations of all kinds to use for meetings, workshops and conferences.
Our rooms include a 60-seat lecture theatre and seminar rooms with digital conferencing facilities.
Seminar Rooms
Adaptable space for teaching or discussion
Harvard Lecture Theatre
60 seats, space for larger groups


Postgraduate Programmes | Lincoln International Business School | University of Lincoln


Jane Owen Jones | University of LincolnIn this section
Jane Owen Jones is the founder of Lloydmasters Consulting, a transformation management consultancy, set up over 30 years ago. Focused on providing support in the areas of organisational and leadership capability, integrated project team alignment, and organisational risk and resilience, Jane has worked extensively overseas, as well as in the UK for organisations connected to the oil, transport and construction sectors, such as BP, Balfour Beatty, Siemens, Morgan Sindall and HS2.
Throughout her consulting career, Jane has developed new approaches to organisational learning and project working. Her particular passion is in helping organisations work together to achieve integrated targets so has worked in a number of merger situations, and for a number of Joint Ventures. This aspect of her expertise has also led to many years of work with the United Nations, Chatham House and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), .
Jane has an enduring relationship with LIBS, having helped set up the Business Consulting arm in 2015, and was the architect of LIBS connect, building on the thriving relationship of businesses connected to Lincoln University. Away from work she looks after her family, raises money for her local hospital, and has been a Governor at a special needs school for 14 years.



WBDL Civilian Information Event | Virtual Information Events | University of LincolnIdeal for experienced professionals needing flexibility whilst working and studying to gain a degree in an area of speciality.
Are you looking to develop your management career? If so, we have a number of work-based degrees you can study at a distance whilst in work.
On completing one of our honours programmes you will also achieve Chartered Manager Status and a Diploma in Management and leadership, giving you the tools to succeed.
Chartered Manager is a highly prestigious status the highest accolade in the managerial profession. The qualifications you will receive enhances your managerial skill set and as Modern University of the Year you can rest assured your qualifications are highly valued.
All our degrees include membership with relevant professional bodies for your profession, in addition Chartered Membership and accreditation for the Logistics and Human Resource Management degrees is provided by CILT and CIPD respectively.
Hear from our team belowto find out what a work-based degree entails, how you study, are assessed and why you should choose Lincoln.
Request Information
Watch our Latest Information Event
Hear from our dedicated academic and admin teams to find out more about Work-Based Distance Learning, including:
Why Lincoln?

Chartership Accreditation
Achieve the highest level of professional management accreditation.
AACSB Member
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), synonymous with the highest standards of excellence since 1916.
100% Online Degree
Study with us for the opportunity to gain a 100% online degree within 24 months.
Experience Recognition
Gain credit as formal recognition of your professional experience
Acclaimed Student Experience and Industry Links
Be a part of the Lincoln community, connect with peers and have the opportunity to network with industry throughout your studies.
6,100 Total Fees
Withflexible payment options.
Dedicated Student Support from Application to Graduation
You will receive a dedicated administrator from our Work-Based Distance Learning Team to support you through to graduation.
Gain Chartered Manager Status and a Professional Diplomaalongside your Degree.
Our programmes feature integrated Chartered Manager Status (CMI, usually 510-815 separately) / Professional Diploma (CMI, Level 5 Management and Leadership, usually 1795-2200 separately)inclusive of your degree qualification.
It is a highly prestigious status to be achieved in the managerial profession. The qualifications are reflective of current practice in leadership and demonstrates managerial competence and functional ability. Our degrees are accredited with not just the CMI but also with Chartered Membership. In addition Logistics and Human Resource Management are accredited with (CILT and CIPD).
Explore Our Online Programmes
BA (Hons) Business Management
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management.
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management
The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management programme has been designed to develop students' capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.
FdSc Operations Management
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability. 


BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management | Virtual Information Events | University of LincolnThis degree is an online work-based distance learning programme.
100% Online Work-Based Distance Learning Programme
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management. Students can apply and develop their knowledge and skills as HR practitioners while exploring HRM from a strategic perspective.
This work-based distance learning programme is designed to provide an opportunity for academic recognition to those who are already employed within the discipline of human resource management, or one of its specialist areas, but who have yet to gain academic and professional recognition of their skills and experience.
The programme will seek to develop students professional competence and enable them to enhance and embellish specific knowledge, skills and abilities relating to their chosen speciality.
The BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is informed by the latest CIPD intermediate level professional standards. In order to achieve professional standing in the HR field great importance must be placed upon professional skills development and the application of knowledge into a distinct range of practical situations. As a result, the teaching team will take as its underpinning delivery strategy the student as producer concept, and will actively encourage and expect students to develop their own approaches to assessment tasks through the application of theoretical concepts to their own working environment.
For more information on this programme click here
Request Information
Why Lincoln?

Chartership Accreditation
Achieve the highest level of professional management accreditation.
100% Online Degree
Study with us for the opportunity to gain a 100% online degree within 24 months.
Experience Recognition
Gain credit as formal recognition of your professional experience
Acclaimed Student Experience and Industry Links
Be a part of the Lincoln community, connect with peers and have the opportunity to network with industry throughout your studies.
6,100 Total Fees
Withflexible payment options.
Dedicated Student Support from Application to Graduation
You will receive a dedicated administrator from our Work-Based Distance Learning Team to support you through to graduation.
AACSB Member
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), synonymous with the highest standards of excellence since 1916.
Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award
Proudly supporting those who serve, we been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award.
A Benchmark for Online Student Experience
This Online Human Resource Management Bachelors degree from the University of Lincoln has been created for individuals who want to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment, and require a CIPD accredited programme. Students can apply and develop their knowledge and skills as HR practitioners while exploring HRM from a strategic perspective.
The BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is informed by the latest CIPD intermediate level professional standards. In order to achieve professional standing in the HR field great importance must be placed upon professional skills development and the application of knowledge into a distinct range of practical situations. This bachelors programme can be globally studied anytime and anywhere on any device with internet access and is built in a digital learning environment that fosters collaboration, creativity and active learning.
Skills Taught On This Programme
What You Will Study
This programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating development of knowledge, skills and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness. Modules include Critical Enquiry Skills, Integrating Professional Human resource Experience, Management of Change, Developing HR Professional Practice and an Independent Research Project designed to equip students with the tools, techniques and knowledge to be able to work effectively in different contexts and engineering situations.
Students can engage with emerging management concerns such as evaluating operational system design or processes and policy and highlight any potential flaws/improvements, whilst refining their critical analysis and decision-making abilities. They will also have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and skills in key areas such as leadership and people management.
Explore Our Online Programmes
BA (Hons) Business Management
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management.
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management
The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management programme has been designed to develop students' capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.
FdSc Operations Management
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability. 


WBDL Military Information Event | Virtual Information Events | University of LincolnAre you looking to achieve academic recognition from your work experience and formal training to improve your qualifications, management skills, and progress to the next step? If so, we have a number of work-based degrees you can study at a distance whilst still serving.
As an approved learning provider under the Armed Forces Enhanced Learning Credits Scheme (ELCAS), we have a number of programmes allowing serving current and existing members of the military, as well as their MOD civilian colleagues, to achieve academic recognition.
On completing one of our honours programmes you will also achieveChartered Manager Status and a Diploma in Management and leadership, giving you the tools to succeed.
Chartered Manager is a highly prestigious status the highest accolade in the managerial profession. The qualifications you will receive enhances your managerial skill set and as a top 5 ranked Modern University of the Year, you can rest assured your qualifications are highly valued.
All our degrees include membership with relevant professional bodies for your profession, in addition Chartered Membership and accreditation for the Logistics and Human Resource Management degrees is provided byCILT andCIPD respectively. Hear from our team below to find out what a work-based degree entails, how you study, are assessed and why you should choose Lincoln.
Request Information
Watch our Latest Information Event
Hear from our dedicated academic and admin teams to find out more about Work-Based Distance Learning, including:
Why Lincoln?

Tailored Programmes
We offer distance learning degrees tailored for the Armed Forces.
Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award
Proudly supporting those who serve, we been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award.
100% Online Degree
Study with us for the opportunity to gain a 100% online degree within 24 months.
Chartership Accreditation
Achieve the highest level of professional management accreditation.
Experience Recognition
Gain credit as formal recognition of your professional experience
AACSB Member
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), synonymous with the highest standards of excellence since 1916.
Acclaimed Student Experience and Industry Links
Be a part of the Lincoln community, connect with peers and have the opportunity to network with industry throughout your studies.
6,100 Total Fees
Withflexible payment options.
Dedicated Student Support from Application to Graduation
You will receive a dedicated administrator from our Work-Based Distance Learning Team to support you through to graduation.
Explore Our Online Programmes
Gain Chartered Manager Status and a Professional Diplomaalongside your Degree.
Our programmes feature integrated Chartered Manager Status (CMI, usually 510-815 separately) / Professional Diploma (CMI, Level 5 Management and Leadership, usually 1795-2200 separately)inclusive of your degree qualification.
It is a highly prestigious status to be achieved in the managerial profession. The qualifications are reflective of current practice in leadership and demonstrates managerial competence and functional ability. Our degrees are accredited with not just the CMI but also with Chartered Membership. In addition Logistics and Human Resource Management are accredited with (CILT and CIPD).
BA (Hons) Business Management
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management.
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management
The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management programme has been designed to develop students' capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.
FdSc Operations Management
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability. 


BSc (Hons) Logistics Management | Virtual Information Events | University of LincolnThis degree is an online work-based distance learning programme.
100% Online Work-Based Distance Learning Programme
 capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.", 'This work-based distance learning programme is designed to provide those working within an appropriate environment, and commonly already holding professional qualifications, the management skills to effectively and efficiently manage their work areas. The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skills students may have already developed during the course of their employment.
The course aims develop of a broad range of logistics management knowledge and skills such as leading people, budgeting, managing the organisation and managing systems. The programme offers elective modules to allow students to choose their own learning journey. Students can make choices concerning their role within the organisation and the particular logistics function they operate in.
The Lincoln International Business School subscribes to the Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME), which establishes a set of principles to guide our educational endeavour to address global challenges and create a better future for society. These principles are embedded in our programmes through the notion of The Lincoln Responsible Management
For more information on this programme click here
Request Information
Why Lincoln?

Chartership Accreditation
Achieve the highest level of professional management accreditation.
100% Online Degree
Study with us for the opportunity to gain a 100% online degree within 24 months.
Experience Recognition
Gain credit as formal recognition of your professional experience
Acclaimed Student Experience and Industry Links
Be a part of the Lincoln community, connect with peers and have the opportunity to network with industry throughout your studies.
6,100 Total Fees
Withflexible payment options.
Dedicated Student Support from Application to Graduation
You will receive a dedicated administrator from our Work-Based Distance Learning Team to support you through to graduation.
AACSB Member
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), synonymous with the highest standards of excellence since 1916.
Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award
Proudly supporting those who serve, we been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award.
Gain Chartered Manager Status and a Professional Diplomaalongside your Degree.
Our programmes feature integrated Chartered Manager Status (CMI, usually 510-815 separately) / Professional Diploma (CMI, Level 5 Management and Leadership, usually 1795-2200 separately)inclusive of your degree qualification.
It is a highly prestigious status to be achieved in the managerial profession. The qualifications are reflective of current practice in leadership and demonstrates managerial competence and functional ability. Our degrees are accredited with not just the CMI but also with Chartered Membership. In addition Logistics and Human Resource Management are accredited with (CILT and CIPD).
A Benchmark for Online Student Experience
This Online Logistics Management Bachelors degree from the University of Lincoln has been created for individuals who want to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment. The programme has an applied focus and is designed to develop the skills that are deemed most valuable to employers.
 Most importantly of all, it provides students with an expertly designed and interactive blended learning online experience. This bachelors programme can be globally studied anytime and anywhere on any device with internet access and is built in a digital learning environment that fosters collaboration, creativity and active learning.
Skills Taught On This Programme
What You Will Study
This programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating development of knowledge, skills and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness. Modules include Critical Enquiry Skills, Integrating Leadership and Management Experience, Strategic Supply Chain Management, a choice of Managing Projects or Managing Operations, an elective module of your choice (Managing Distribution Logistics, Managing Humanitarian Logistics, Venture Creation, Coaching and Mentoring, managing Projects, Managing Operations, Health and Safety Management) and an Independent Research Project designed to equip students with the tools, techniques and knowledge to be able to work effectively in different contexts and engineering situations.
Students can engage with emerging management concerns such as evaluating operational system design or processes and policy and highlight any potential flaws/improvements, whilst refining their critical analysis and decision-making abilities. They will also have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and skills in key areas such as leadership and people management.
Explore Our Online Programmes
BA (Hons) Business Management
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management.
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management
The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management programme has been designed to develop students' capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.
FdSc Operations Management
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability. 


BA (Hons) Business Management | Virtual Information Events | University of LincolnThis degree is an online work-based distance learning programme.
100% Online Work-Based Distance Learning Programme
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
This work-based distance learning programme is designed to provide those working within an appropriate environment, and commonly already holding professional qualifications, the management skills to effectively and efficiently manage their work areas.
The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skills you have already developed during the course of your employment.
For more information on this programme click here
Request Information
Why Lincoln?

Chartership Accreditation
Achieve the highest level of professional management accreditation.
100% Online Degree
Study with us for the opportunity to gain a 100% online degree within 24 months.
Experience Recognition
Gain credit as formal recognition of your professional experience
Acclaimed Student Experience and Industry Links
Be a part of the Lincoln community, connect with peers and have the opportunity to network with industry throughout your studies.
6,100 Total Fees
Withflexible payment options.
Dedicated Student Support from Application to Graduation
You will receive a dedicated administrator from our Work-Based Distance Learning Team to support you through to graduation.
AACSB Member
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), synonymous with the highest standards of excellence since 1916.
Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award
Proudly supporting those who serve, we been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award.
Gain Chartered Manager Status and a Professional Diplomaalongside your Degree.
Our programmes feature integrated Chartered Manager Status (CMI, usually 510-815 separately) / Professional Diploma (CMI, Level 5 Management and Leadership, usually 1795-2200 separately)inclusive of your degree qualification.
It is a highly prestigious status to be achieved in the managerial profession. The qualifications are reflective of current practice in leadership and demonstrates managerial competence and functional ability. Our degrees are accredited with not just the CMI but also with Chartered Membership. In addition Logistics and Human Resource Management are accredited with (CILT and CIPD).
A Benchmark for Online Student Experience
This BA (Hons) Business Management Degree from the University of Lincoln has been created for individuals who want to develop a deep understanding of business, leadership and management to advance their careers through personal and professional development; with an applied focus to increase management competences and enhance employability.
Most importantly of all, the programme provides students with an expertly-designed and interactive online learning experience. The programme can be studied anywhere, any time and on any device and is built in a digital learning environment that fosters collaboration, creativity and active learning; with a clear focus on the student experience and academic, pastoral and professional support, each student is allocated an individual tutor with additional academic and personal support available from dedicated members of staff.
What You Will Study
The programme is designed to offer students a robust appreciation of the fundamental subjects needed to manage a business within a complex and changing environment. Modules in critical enquiry skills, leadership and management, digital communications, finance and research aim to equip students with the tools, techniques and knowledge to be able to work effectively in different contexts.Students can engage with core concepts of business management and emerging management concerns, whilst refining their critical analysis and decision-making abilities; offering students a wider critical perspective on the consequences of individual decisions and actions within the business environment. Students also have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and skills in key areas through the selection of their elective module, including options such as; project management, managing operations, coaching and mentoring, entrepreneurship, managing logistics and health and safety management, to further tailor their learning experience and support personal and professional development.
Explore Our Online Programmes
BA (Hons) Business Management
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management.
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management
The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management programme has been designed to develop students' capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.
FdSc Operations Management
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability. 


Virtual Information Events | University of LincolnIn this section


BSc (Hons) Engineering Management | Virtual Information Events | University of LincolnThis degree is an online work-based distance learning programme.
100% Online Work-Based Distance Learning Programme
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
This work-based distance learning (WBDL) programme is designed to provide those working within the technical environment, and commonly already holding technical qualifications, the management skills to effectively and efficiently manage their work areas.
Engineering Management has parallels with Industrial and Systems Engineering which is concerned with the design, improvement and installation of integrated systems of people, materials, information, equipment and energy. The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skill in the mathematical, physical, and social sciences together with the principles and methods of engineering analysis and design, to specify, predict, and evaluate the results to be obtained from such systems (IISE, 2017).
For more information on this programme click here
Request Information
Why Lincoln?

Chartership Accreditation
Achieve the highest level of professional management accreditation.
100% Online Degree
Study with us for the opportunity to gain a 100% online degree within 24 months.
Experience Recognition
Gain credit as formal recognition of your professional experience
Acclaimed Student Experience and Industry Links
Be a part of the Lincoln community, connect with peers and have the opportunity to network with industry throughout your studies.
6,100 Total Fees
Withflexible payment options.
Dedicated Student Support from Application to Graduation
You will receive a dedicated administrator from our Work-Based Distance Learning Team to support you through to graduation.
AACSB Member
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), synonymous with the highest standards of excellence since 1916.
Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award
Proudly supporting those who serve, we been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award.
Gain Chartered Manager Status and a Professional Diplomaalongside your Degree.
Our programmes feature integrated Chartered Manager Status (CMI, usually 510-815 separately) / Professional Diploma (CMI, Level 5 Management and Leadership, usually 1795-2200 separately)inclusive of your degree qualification.
It is a highly prestigious status to be achieved in the managerial profession. The qualifications are reflective of current practice in leadership and demonstrates managerial competence and functional ability. Our degrees are accredited with not just the CMI but also with Chartered Membership. In addition Logistics and Human Resource Management are accredited with (CILT and CIPD).
A Benchmark for Online Student Experience
This Online Engineering Management Bachelors degree from the University of Lincoln has been created for individuals who want to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment. The programme has an applied focus and is designed to develop the skills that are deemed most valuable to employers.
Most importantly of all, it provides students with an expertly designed and interactive blended learning online experience. This bachelors programme can be globally studied anytime and anywhere on any device with internet access and is built in a digital learning environment that fosters collaboration, creativity and active learning.
Skills Taught On This Programme
What You Will Study
This programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating development of knowledge, skills and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness. Modules include Critical Enquiry Skills, Integrating Leadership and Management Experience, Engineering Systems Design, Engineering Systems Management, an elective module of your choice and an Independent Research Project designed to equip students with the tools, techniques and knowledge to be able to work effectively in different contexts and engineering situations.
Students can engage with emerging management concerns such as evaluating operational system design or processes and policy and highlight any potential flaws/improvements, whilst refining their critical analysis and decision-making abilities. They will also have the opportunity to develop their knowledge and skills in key areas such as leadership and people management.
Explore Our Online Programmes
BA (Hons) Business Management
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management.
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management
The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management programme has been designed to develop students' capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.
FdSc Operations Management
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability. 


Help to Grow | Executive Development | University of LincolnHelp to Grow: Supporting Business Managers
The Help to Grow: Management Course supports managers of small and medium sized businesses to help boost their businesss performance, resilience, and long-term growth.
This12-week programme is designed to be taken alongside full-time work through a combination of online sessions and face-to-face learning. The in-depth, high-quality curriculum will support you to build your capabilities in leadership, innovation, digital adoption, employee engagement, marketing, responsible business, and financial management.
The programme is 90 per cent funded by the Government so you only pay 750. It is delivered in partnership with the Small Business Charter.
Contact helptogrow@lincoln.ac.uk to find out more
Features and Benefits
Participants on the programme have the opportunity to:
Register for Help to Grow
Our next cohort starts June 2024
Contact us for more details or to register: helptogrow@lincoln.ac.uk
The Programme
The 12-week programme provides short-focused sessions allowing you to complete the course alongside running your business. Delivery methods include:
Course Structure
Modules on the course coverStrategy and Innovation;Digital Adoption;Internationalisation and Winning New Markets;Vision, Mission and Values;Developing a Marketing Strategy;Building a Brand;Organisation Design;Employee Engagement and Leading Change;High Performance Workplace;Efficient Operations;Finance and Financial Management; andImplementing Growth Plans.
Modules
Strategy and Innovation
This module focuses on:
Digital Adoption
This module focuses on:
Internationalisation and Winning New Markets
This module will take an in-depth look at how a business has:
Vision, Mission and Values
This module focuses on:
Developing a Marketing Strategy
This module focuses on:
Building a Brand
This modules explores how a business built a market-leading brand and continued to serve its customers needs through changing times. It also considers what challenges had to be overcome and how did the company stay true to its purpose and values.
Organisation Design
This module focuses on:
Employee Engagement and Leading Change
This module focuses on:
High Performance Workplace
This module focuses on:
Efficient Operations
This module focuses on:
Finance and Financial Management
This module focuses on:
Implementing Growth Plans
This module focuses on:
Outcomes
By the end of the course, you will have had the opportunity to:
Recommended by over 90% of SME leaders*
Eligibility
To participate in theHelp to Grow: Management Course, your business must be a small or medium-sized enterprise (SME) based in the United Kingdom and can be from any business sector, employing between five and 249 people. The business needs to have been operational for at least one year and not a charity.
The applicant must also be a senior decision maker, such as chief executive, finance director, operations director, etc. and committed to completing all the sessions.
Please note: only one person per business can attend the programme.
For more information please contact helptogrow@lincoln.ac.uk
Chris Hardy
Director of Keith Hanson Road Transport, Newark
"The one thing that I loved about this course is the people that I have met, from all different businesses and sectors. We have really been able to help each other and bounce ideas off each other and enjoy it."

Vernon Jones
CEO of AI Digital, Lincoln
"I have recently moved into a leadership role within the organisation from a projects and programme management background. Going on the course x03gave me skills that I havent been involved with before like marketing, sales and looking for leads."

Our Help to Grow: Management Course has helped these Lincolnshire business'
AI Digital

Biomatics

Bluecube

British Growers

British Horological Institute

Marren

Retail Data Partnership (RDP)

AI Digital

Biomatics

Bluecube

British Growers

British Horological Institute

Marren

Retail Data Partnership (RDP)

Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


FdSc Operations Management | Virtual Information Events | University of LincolnThis degree is an online work-based distance learning programme.
100% Online Work-Based Distance Learning Programme
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability. As a Work-Based Distance Learning (WBDL) student at the University of Lincoln, you will study remotely, as part of our global learning community.
s WBDL honours degree pathway, this foundation degree realises the study needs of individuals in full time employment, working within an operations management environment. By breaking down the barriers between learning at work and learning at university, we recognise the high level of skills and learning that are demonstrated every day in the workplace, accrediting this experience, to allow you to maximise your previous learning and work-experience, to achieve your academic and professional goals.", 'Request Information
Why Lincoln?

Chartership Accreditation
Achieve the highest level of professional management accreditation.
100% Online Degree
Study with us for the opportunity to gain a 100% online degree within 24 months.
Experience Recognition
Gain credit as formal recognition of your professional experience
Acclaimed Student Experience and Industry Links
Be a part of the Lincoln community, connect with peers and have the opportunity to network with industry throughout your studies.
6,100 Total Fees
Withflexible payment options.
Dedicated Student Support from Application to Graduation
You will receive a dedicated administrator from our Work-Based Distance Learning Team to support you through to graduation.
AACSB Member
The University of Lincoln is a member of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), synonymous with the highest standards of excellence since 1916.
Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award
Proudly supporting those who serve, we been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award.
A Benchmark for Online Student Experience
This Operations Management Foundation degree from the University of Lincoln has been created for individuals who want to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment. The programme has an applied focus and is designed to develop the skills that are deemed most valuable to employers, to support career progression.
Importantly, our programmes provide students with an expertly designed and interactive learning experience. Built in a digital environment that fosters collaboration, creativity, and active learning, supporting you to achieve your ambitions of further study anywhere, anytime, on any online device.
Skills Taught on this Programme
Operational acumen based on critical appreciation of theory and its application to practice within the organisation, to manage your work areas effectively and efficiently.
Academic skills, operational processes, critical enquiry, logical thought, creative imagination, and independent judgement, as well as a pragmatic and practitioner focus, applying learning to real-life situations.
Understanding operational processes through the prism of new technologies and how this will impact operations management.
Skills to successfully manage people, to help deliver operational outcomes.
What You Will Study
The Degree is delivered sequentially, developing key study skills before moving onto research skills with a focus upon the realities of practice. Focussing on the role of people in delivering the operation, to further develop basic management skills, you will complete modules exploring the role of the individual in leading and managing a team within the operational context.
Modules include Academic Study Skills, Managing People, Introduction to Operations Management, Planning and Control Systems, Developing as a Leader and Manager, Digital Technologies in Operations, and an Operations Work-Based Project.
BA (Hons) Business Management
The BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, with the aim of increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management.
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management
The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management programme has been designed to develop students' capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.
FdSc Operations Management
The FdSc Operations Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, increasing management competence, and enhancing overall employability. 


Faraz Khan | University of LincolnIn this section
A multi-stakeholder investment and impact specialist, author, and public speaker with over 25 years of experience. He is the founder of Social, Entrepreneurship & Equity Development (SEED) Ventures which is an investment and impact development organisation in Pakistan. Within 10 years he has taken the group from an idea to a sustainable organisation, with a turnover of $40 million for SEED and its portfolio companies. With a strong base in the UK, he has been able to create collaborations and partnerships at a local and global level with public, private, development, media, academia and financial sectors. He has mobilised these partnerships to raise multimillion dollar funds through cross-sectoral investment architecture with vehicles like corporate impact venturing, blendecod finance, co-investments and public private partnerships. He has spearheaded impact programmes and collaborations between UK and Pakistan in the space of inclusive education, enterprise, social enterprise for youth, women and Bottom of the Pyramid (BOP) segments impacting and engaging over 100,000 people. He has co-authored social enterprise legislation and is actively working with the government on policy development and legislation that will create an environment conducive for social enterprises in Pakistan. He is also visiting Professor (Social Enterprise, Innovation & Policy) at St. Marys University, Twickenham UK.



Current Programmes | UNESCO Chair | University of LincolnOur Approach: addressing global challenges from local realities
Our programmes are research-based in collaboration with partners. They address UN Sustainable Development Goals and aim to influence anticipatory processes and capacity in research and education as well as in policy and practice, depending on the specific project and stakeholders.

Responsible Futures
Futures of Responsible Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
Inclusive Futures 
Institutions for Future Development
Sustainable Food Futures
Climate Futures
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Affiliates | UNESCO Chair Members | University of LincolnAffiliates are people actively participating in the Chair Group projects. They may be from the University of Lincoln, or affiliated partners or as independent contributors.

ProfessorDieu Hack-Polay
ProfessorDieu Hack-Polay is a specialist on Sociology of Work and Organisations and Organisational Psychology. His link with the UNESCO Chair is related to his research work on minority groups and migrant workers. He is a contributor to the work on responsible futures in relation to collective decision-making in community organisations.
Staff Profile

MsJudith John
MsJudith John has participated in Chair group meetings and given an online presentation on anticipatory accounting to the Resilient Lincolnshire network, while continuing her doctoral research on governance.
Staff Profile

Dr ArtemKhudenko
Dr ArtemKhudenkoteaches risk management and strategic thinking. He has contributed to the Chair groups knowledge on scenario planning and strategic foresight, as well as presenting in the "connecting Futures Studies" seminar series.
Staff Profile

Professor Shermon Cruz
Professor Shermon Cruzis the Chair of the Association of Professional Futurists (APF), and the UNESCO Chair Candidate on Anticipatory Governance and Regenerative Cities at Northwestern University in the Philippines. He is an experienced futurist; Founder and Executive Director of the Center for Engaged Foresight, a strategic foresight and futures innovation firm with global operations based in Manila. He is the current Chair of The Millennium Project Philippines Node and has chaired the Asia Pacific Futures Network of top futurists and government foresight institutions in Asia and the Pacific.
Shermon contributes his experience of applied foresight activities to the Lincoln Chair and is helping to build wider collaborations with Asia and the Pacific institutions on responsible foresight for sustainable development.
Connect on LinkedIn
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


UNESCO Chair | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnWelcome to theLincoln UNESCO Chair on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development
The Lincoln UNESCO Chair on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development was established in January 2019. It was created to help address the global challenges of sustainable development through research and responsible foresight practices.
Our mission is to work with communities to construct better futures in North-South collaboration, reframing the future, developing new knowledge, and addressing sustainable development goals.
Our purpose is to reimagine, co-create, co-learn, and share new knowledge that leads to more sustainable and responsible futures. The Chair members work collaboratively with partners to develop greater capacity for responsible foresight, especially in Global South contexts.
Our aim is to help build joint capacity to shape the future.
UNESCO Chair Members
Current Programmes
About the UNESCO Chair
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Building Capacity to Reimagine the Future
We co-produce knowledge through partnerships with institutions in the Global South, mainly in Higher Education and NGOs. Projects involve the creation of new knowledge and new practices through research, education, and training. Foresight as practice helps to explore and reimagine the future.
Our projects are concerned with understanding and achieving better futures  not as a distant place but as a desirable state created through what we can achieve today. The future is a real and significant space for inspiring the development of aspiration and capabilities. We take an explicit focus on creating futures responsibly; on ways to frame and imagine futures; on achieving possible transformations; on the multiple competencies required to create better futures; and on enabling specific action.
This is not a predictive forecasting exercise, but an anticipatory process of intention, policy, practices, and critical articulation of consequences. Asking questions such as: how does our joint research and expertise change the way that the future is framed and anticipated? How can the capacity to shape the future be developed? 
This means putting extant knowledge and expertise to work as futures thinking. The process of engaging with the future is intended to influence learning, education, research, applied practices, and policy. And from such activities all of us can gain new knowledge to develop more effective and inclusive approaches.
Our activities for the coming years include:
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Sustainable Food Futures | Current Programmes | University of LincolnAbout this Programme
The futures of food and of food security are central to sustainable development and equality. What and how we consume makes big differences to greenhouse gas emissions, to the availability of food and on humanity's capacity to produce good quality food for all.
The programme contributes toSDGs 1,2,8,10,15, principallySDG 2 Zero Hunger.
Example Projects


Household food consumption decisions in the context of food and nutritional security
Dr Lilian Korirs research provides empirical evidence and insights about Kenyas food security situation. Her empirical approach focused on the economic analysis of household food consumption decisions in the context of food and nutritional security. The UNESCO Chair activities help to consolidate this work and to reach other institutions and stakeholders, for example via workshops.
ContactDr Korir tofind out more
The economic impact of soil salinization and the potential for saline agriculture
s study of the economic impact of soil salinization and the potential for saline agriculture (e.g. producing halophytes) provides a framework for economic risk assessment in regions where salinity poses a significant threat to agricultural production and to local or national economies, but also an opportunity to develop alternative renewable sources of biomass.", 'ContactDrRuto tofind out more




Investigating images of alternative farming approaches
s research on futures of farming is investigating images of alternative farming approaches, models and consequences that result from a greater use of robotic and autonomous technologies to establish more sustainable methods in agri-food production. The insights from her UK studies will have implications for global food security.", 'ContactDrCamacho tofind out more
Other Programme Contributors

MoreProgrammes
Responsible Futures
Futures of Responsible Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
Inclusive Futures 
Institutions for Future Development
Sustainable Food Futures
Climate Futures
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Responsible Entrepreneurship and Innovation  | Current Programmes | University of LincolnAbout this Programme
Entrepreneurship is a future-creating practice that demonstrates the power and value of human agency. This programme is concerned with the ways that entrepreneurship and innovation are shaping sustainable and responsible futures, and how the necessary skills and values can be developed.
The programme contributes toSDGs 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13,principallySDG 8 Decent Work and Economic GrowthandSDG 12, Responsible Production and Consumption
Example Projects


Entrepreneurial mindsets and behaviour, cultural values and negotiation styles, informal entrepreneurship, and responsible entrepreneurship education.
Dr Andrea Caputos research (see publications) address entrepreneurial mindsets and behaviour, cultural values and negotiation styles, informal entrepreneurship, and responsible entrepreneurship education.
ContactDrCaputo tofind out more
Sustainable Production 4.0: Exchanging Knowledge and Setting a Common Research Agenda
Professor Charbel Jabbour has been funded by UK-Brazil Newton Fund for this collaborative research, approved in 2020. This has already led to research and publications related to Brazil, Malaysia, India and Indonesia. The target group is manufacturing and distribution companies to reduce ecological damage in supply chains. We are in the process of linking this area of research to the aims of the UNESCO Chair.
Visit the Newton Fund website




Diaspora-influenced products as a means of improving the economic sustainability
diaspora cultural capital'.", 'ContactDrRahman tofind out more
Innovations in entrepreneurship education, with a focus on Nigeria
Dr Paul Igweresearchprogrammeis on innovations in entrepreneurship education, with a focus on Nigeria. In this project Paul has collaborated with our UNESCO HEI partners in Nigeria and developed a strong network of university leaders. The key issue is developing Nigerian HEIs to be able to provide suitable education for the skills and knowledge needed to develop the counties economy is a sustainable way.Dr Igwe andDr Rahmanare leading a project on the digital economy funded by theBritish Council on theInnovation for African Universities (IAU) programme, working in partnership with theAfrican Development Institute of Research Methodology(ADIRM) and Coal City University, Enugu, Nigeria with a network of universities in Nigeria.He has also considered the significance of informal entrepreneurship and women entrepreneurship as part of the entrepreneurial ecology of the country, and which universities should form part of, but often do not. As well as academic outputs, Paul brings his work into public debate in the national press.
Find out More
The strategic use of enzyme based technologies in the Bangladesh textile industry
DrMahfuzurRahman and Professor Md.MorsalineBillahhave completed a two-year post-doctoral research project on the strategic use of enzyme based technologies in the Bangladesh textile industry, funded by theUK Commonwealth Commission. The purpose is to investigate the opportunities to reduce harm on water supplies in Bangladesh by replacing chemical dyes with enzyme based dyes and to discuss the consequences of this with the textile industry stakeholders.
Find out More
Tourism development and poverty alleviation
Professor ShrabaniSahais working with colleagues to research this issue and provide information to regional governments enterprises.Shehas been working with Prof. Goyari from the University of Hyderabad to study tourism development and poverty alleviation; carbon dioxide emissions from tourism, economic growth and political instability and tourism. She is also Principal Investigator on a significantQatar National Research Funding(QNRF)research project with colleagues from Australia and Qatar to inform ways to develop sustainable tourism beyond 2022.
Find out More
Other Programme Contributors
MoreProgrammes
Responsible Futures
Futures of Responsible Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
Inclusive Futures 
Institutions for Future Development
Sustainable Food Futures
Climate Futures
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Inclusive Futures | Current Programmes | University of LincolnAbout this Programme
Equality is a fundamental right, whether, for example, ethnic, gender or generational, means, among other things, equal stakes in the future and the benefits of future value. It is critical in achieving sustainable development outcomes as it helps promote economic stability and growth, while also reducing extreme poverty.
The programme contributes toSDGs 1,4,5,8, 10, principallySDG 5 Gender EqualityandSDG 10 Reduced Inequalities
Example Projects
Women Leaders in Latin America
DrClariceSantosresearch on Women Leaders in Latin America has been largely focused on Brazil examining the current scenario and a pathway for sustainable development. She is also involved in collaborative researchcentredon cases in China, India, South Africa, and countries within the South American context such as Peru, Chile, Argentina, and Colombia.Dr Santosis particularly interested in the intersections of gender with race, ethnicity, culture and other diversity dimensions. She has recently received funding to examine gender-based violence and other topics that perpetuate inequalities.
Building the capacity of community organisations to engage in policy development and decision making to enhance democratic processes
Zoraida Mendiwelso Bendekdevelops applied research on building the capacity of community organisations to engage in policy development and decision making to enhance democratic processes. Sheworks with partner organisations to co-produce inclusive community futures via the Take Part programme. The co-production approach creates university and community organisation partnerships.The legacy of this approach is a strengthened capacity in university and community organizational partnerships for social transformation and engagement with policy makers. One example is the Take Part programme with the Los Andes University, (Columbia) and the Mortenson Centre, University of Illinois, USA, which has initiated programmes in USA, Canada, Colombia, India, Spain, Qatar, Peru, Costa Rica, Argentina, South Africa, and Uganda. In Colombia, Costa Rica and Peru, 300 participants have supported community-designed development across 28 projects which had benefited over 2,000 citizens including parents and neighbours, caregivers of disabled youth, indigenous youth, members of youth groups and boy scout groups.
Contact Zoraida Mendiwelso-Bendek to find out more
Other Programme Contributors
MoreProgrammes
Responsible Futures
Futures of Responsible Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
Inclusive Futures 
Institutions for Future Development
Sustainable Food Futures
Climate Futures
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Institutions for Future Development | Current Programmes | University of LincolnAbout this Programme
This work area contributes research and new knowledge to the understanding and development of stronger institutions and governance for sustainable development. These include democratic power in communities, anti-corruption and non-violence in private and public institutions, industry frameworks and policies as well as cultural habits and norms.
The programme contributes toSDGs 4,5,8,10,12,16,17,principallySDG 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions.
Example Projects


Social Justice
Peacebuilding in Colombia, Alliance between the university and the community: Co-Lab Paz' was published in November 2020.", 'ContactZoraida Mendiwelso-Bendek tofind out more
A study of the participation of women-owned small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in international trade
Dr Mahfuzur Rahman (with colleagues) made a study of the participation of women-owned small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in international trade, addressing the role of social, cultural, and legal institutions in fostering women entrepreneurship. This study pointed out how issues addressed in feminist theories influence the selected parameters that might affect women entrepreneurs doing or wanting to do international business. For instance, the nature of womens social bonds and relational attachment to childcare concerns and the couple-level strategies might affect women entrepreneurs decision to be involved in international entrepreneurship. The findings show that policy assumptions about barriers to international trade by women run business may fail to take account of the insights from feminist theories.
ContactDr Rahman tofind out more




The role and effects of institutional frameworks on sustainable development
s UNESCO Chair partners.", 'ContactProf. Saha tofind out more
The role of tourism development in relation to poverty alleviation; carbon dioxide emissions, economic growth and political instability.
ProfessorShrabaniSahahas recently been working with Prof. Goyari from the University of Hyderabad to address governance in the tourism sector. In particular, the role of tourism development in relation to poverty alleviation; carbon dioxide emissions, economic growth and political instability. She is also working with colleagues from Australia and Qatar to inform way to develop sustainable tourism beyond 2022.
Contact Prof. Saha to find out more
Imagined futuresand conflict resolution - exploring the relationship between violence, non-violence, and anticipation in peace processes and complex conflict contexts.
April Ward's doctoral research enquires into the role of imagined futuresand conflict resolution by exploring the relationship between violence, non-violence, and anticipation in peace processes and complex conflict contexts. This case study research is investigating the presence of the future in processes where societies that have made transitions from destructive violent regimes to more peaceful regimes.
Contact April Ward to find out more
Other Programme Contributors

MoreProgrammes
Responsible Futures
Futures of Responsible Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
Inclusive Futures 
Institutions for Future Development
Sustainable Food Futures
Climate Futures
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Visiting Researchers | UNESCO Chair Members | University of LincolnVisiting Researchers play an important role as partners in the team. They are normally based elsewhere than Lincoln and have formal visiting status to the university.

Dr PhanindraGoyari
Visiting Professor, University of Hyderabadworking closely with Professor Shrabani Saha.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:

Dr Clarice Santos
Dr Clarice Santos research is about examining gender and diversity in the workplace and in communities in order to promote equality in the larger society. Sheis involved in international research on communities and leadership, and in particular the empowerment of women leaders. Since joining the Chair, Dr Santos has travelled to Brazil to work with colleagues on research and womens management education and is also co-supervising a doctoral study related to the Chair.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:

Dr AfamItuma
Vice Chancellor of Coal City University, Nigeria
Dr Ituma is a Visiting Professor to the University of Lincoln and works closely with Dr Paul Igwe.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Climate Futures | Current Programmes | University of LincolnAbout this Programme
In many respects, the issue of climate change and net-zero ambitions, is, or should be, an ever-present issue throughout all sustainability thinking and actions, as it represents an existential risk to humanity. It is a topic that demands co-ordinated and collective leadership to bring transform the underlying causes of arising from our collective lifestyles and organisation.
This programme contributes toSDGs 9,10,13,16, principallySDG 13 Climate Action.
Example Projects
understanding government and community efforts in tackling climate change, environmental pollution, ecosystem restoration and flooding in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria.
Dr Paul Igwehas initiated an exciting newcollaboratoryon understanding government and community efforts in tackling climate change, environmental pollution, ecosystem restoration and flooding in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria. Our partner on this initiative is theAfrican Centre for Climate Actions and Rural Development(ACCARD). ACCARD engages with stakeholders in the Niger Delta region including key Universities in the region. The specific focus of this co-lab is to advance nature-based solutions to climate change management and community approaches to issues related to climate change. Also, it initiates stakeholder interactions towards climate change livelihood and Ecosystem losses through sustainable approaches. The aim is to develop, amongst other things, climate change champions; leaders who understand what responsible practices are needed to ameliorate the causes of climate change, to guide practical activities in response to climate change and to develop reparative programmes.
Dontact Dr. Igwe to find out more
Other Programme Contributors
MoreProgrammes
Responsible Futures
Futures of Responsible Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
Inclusive Futures 
Institutions for Future Development
Sustainable Food Futures
Climate Futures
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Responsible Futures | Current Programmes | University of LincolnAbout this Programme
Responsible Futures is the umbrella research programme for the Chair. Its purpose is to introduce appropriate methodologies and narratives as a resource for research, education and capacity building in multiple contexts and with a range of partners.
The programme contributesto a range of SDGs, through the associated programmes, and principally todeveloping partnerships SDG17
Example Projects

Studying ways in which responsibility is manifest in anticipatory systems
Prof. Ted Fuller is developing the narratives and networks for studying ways in which responsibility is manifest in anticipatory systems. He founded the Responsible Futures Global Network with UNESCO Chair Prof. Fabrice Roubelat (Poitiers University), which organises seminars and joint research and publication programmes.
Contact Prof. Fuller tofind out more

The nature of responsibility and open futures
April Ward's research is on the role of imagined futures in transitions and in this programme she is exploring the nature of responsibility and open futures, as well as playing a key role in the organising team for the project.

ContactApril Ward tofind out more


Aspects of the futures of agri-food, developing methodologies for identifying the characteristics of responsibility in socio-technological systems
s research on aspects of the futures of agri-food are developing specific methodologies for identifying the characteristics of responsibility in socio-technological systems.", '
ContactDrCamacho tofind out more
Other Programme Contributors
MoreProgrammes
Responsible Futures
Futures of Responsible Entrepreneurship and Innovation 
Inclusive Futures 
Institutions for Future Development
Sustainable Food Futures
Climate Futures
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Alumni | UNESCO Chair Members | University of Lincoln
Prof. Md.MorsalineBillah
Khulna University, Bangladesh
Professor Md. Morsaline Billahwas a visiting scholar to Lincoln during 2019 and 2020, engaged on a joint research project with Dr Rahman, funded by the UK Commonwealth Scholarship Commission. The study related to the adoption of enzyme based dyestuff for sustainable textile manufacturing in Bangladesh.
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


UNESCO Chair Members | UNESCO Chair | University of LincolnMembership of the UNESCO Chair consists of four main groups as follows:

Members
The UNESCO Chair group members are based at the University of Lincoln.
View our Chair members
Visiting Researchers
Our visitingresearchers are connected to theChair via their involvement in various programmes.
See ourvisiting researchers


Affiliates
Affiliates are people actively participating in the Chair Group projects. They may be from the University of Lincoln, affiliated partners, or independent contributors.
View affiliates
Alumni
Here you will find an archive of all previously active UNESCO Chair members.
View our UNESCO Chair Alumni

---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Members | UNESCO Chair Members | University of LincolnThe Chair Group members are based at the University of Lincoln.

Professor Ted Fuller
Professor Ted Fuller is the UNESCO Chair holder on Responsible Foresight for Sustainable Development. Dr. Fuller leads the Chair and provides support and guidance for the Chair members projects addressing futures and SDGs. He also gives numerous presentations, develops network relationships with UNESCO Chairs and others, assists applicant UNESCO Chairs, and designs and develops the responsible foresight research and capacity buildingprogramme.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory|LinkedIn

Dr Carolina Camacho Villa
Dr Carolina Camacho Villa is currently undertaking a study on the future workforce for fresh produce packhouse automation. She is also involved in the book that the Chair is leading on Responsible Foresight, with a case on emergent agricultural technologies. She is preparing research on the futures of farming and Robotics technologies with the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology. Affiliation to the Chair provides support for the development of the futures research methodology.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory

Dr Andrea Caputo
Dr Andrea Caputolargely focusses on understanding the nature of complexity in the decision making process, the global and local impact on macro-trends, and how to increase and facilitate communication with and for entrepreneurs. Hehas engaged in knowledge sharing across the UNESCO Chair group;organisingand delivering activities with UNESCO affiliate the Queen Rania Centre for Entrepreneurship at the Princess Sumaya University for Technology (Amman, Jordan) to develop the capacity to support the education of women entrepreneurs in responsible management. More widely, Dr Caputo has led webinars and shaped a special interest in foresight and sustainability amongst European academic networks, for example, the European Academy of Management (EURAM).
Relationship with partners: Queen Rania Center for Entrepreneurship (https://www.qrce.org/), Amman, Jordan - Princess Sumaya University for Technology (https://psut.edu.jo/), Amman, Jordan
Specialism link to UNESCO objectives: Objective 1 and 2 - learning and education in management and entrepreneurship
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory|LinkedIn

DrPaul Igwe
Dr Paul Igwes focus is on higher education and women entrepreneurship with research and developmental activities to engage policymakers relating to policy reform and sustainability challenges in the education and business sectors.As an active member of the Chair group, Dr Igwe has been building relationships with a network of universities in Nigeria with a focus on entrepreneurship, innovation and sustainability. Dr Igwe's activities have included field research, publications, keynote presentations and webinars.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory

Professor Charbel Jose Chiappetta Jabbour
Professor Charbel Jose Chiappetta Jabbour works on sustainable supply chains and the further integration of responsible futures into supply chain management is work in progress.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory

Professor Ana Beatriz Lopes de Sousa Jabbour
Professor Ana Beatriz Lopes de Sousa Jabbour works on sustainable supply chains and the further integration of responsible futures into supply chain management is work in progress.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory

Dr Lilian Korir
Dr Lilian Korir has contributed to foresight on food security, with a purpose of affecting policies in Kenya. In collaboration with Dr Eric Ruto, Dr Korir has visited and built relationships with the Tegemeo Institute of Agricultural Policy and Development,KCA University andKabarakUniversity,Kenya and plans for further research.Dr Korirhas also created links with the Lincoln Institute of Agric-Food Technology to help explore the futures of food.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory

MsZoraidaMendiwelso-Bendek
ZoraidaMendiwelso-Bendek is an established expert on community based research and ways to build partnerships between universities and communities as part of capacity building in social justice. The partnerships are active in UK, Europe, USA and Latin America. Zoraida is foremost in developing the UNESCO Chair's capability to engage meaningfully with stakeholder communities.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory

DrMahfuzurRahman
DrMahfuzurRahman is an Associate Professor at the University of Lincoln, UK. He is also an Associate Editor of the International Journal of Public Sociology andSociotherapy(IJPSS). His current academic and research interests are in Sustainability and Innovation with a focus on Emerging Markets. Investigating the potential environment friendly manufacturing, such as, adoption of textile enzymes, for a sustainable future motivates his most recent research works. Dr Rahman is an Academic Adviser to the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, UK. As an adviser, Dr Rahman is representing UK Higher Education to Commonwealth countries. He is also playing a critical role in the selection of Commonwealth Scholar and Fellows. His research projects (as Principal Investigator/Co-Investigator) and Scholarships (as Supervisor) are funded by the Commonwealth Commission, Government of Bangladesh, British Council, Government of Ghana and UNIDO.
Relationship with partners:Centre for Entrepreneurship Development (CED) at BRAC University, Bangladesh. Link:http://ced.bracu.ac.bd/
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory|LinkedIn

MsMagdalena Read
Ms Magdalena Read is a Lecturer and doctoral student specializing in Capacity Building. Her PhD research is focus on "Small community groups' decision-making process and their sustainability in rural areas : a case for Lincolnshire". She is a Provisional Member of the Association of Professional Futurist (global) andhas connections with thePhilippine Futures Thinking Society.As part of her involvement with the Responsible Futures Programme, she andProfDieu Hack-Polay are contributing to a book chapter on "Collective decision-making in community organisations".
Relationship with partners:University of the Philippines
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory|LinkedIn

Dr Eric Ruto
Dr Eric Ruto's largely quantitative research focusses on diverse, global food security issues and agricultural practices, such as salinization, with a particular expertise in the Kenyan context. Dr Rutohas contributed to foresight on food security, with a purpose of affecting policies in Kenya. In collaboration with Dr Lilian Korir, heis workingwith the Tegemeo Institute of Agricultural Policy and Development, Kenya andthe Lincoln Institute of Agric-Food to help explore the futures of food.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory

ProfessorShrabaniSaha
Professor Shrabani Saha is the Chair of Development Economics at Lincoln International Business School, and is deeply interested in political economy, terrorism and tourism economics, economic growth, development economics and international trade issues. Sheis a regular and frequent contributor to the UNESCO Chair group,integrating key ideas of futures and sustainable development into her international research on institutional governance, concerned with (anti) corruption, development economics, and sustainable tourism.
ProfessorSaha is currently collaborating and working on several research projects with academics and researchers from various universities in Australia, Bangladesh, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, United Arab Emirates, Mongolia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Singapore, Thailand, United Kingdom, Qatar, Sultanate of Oman and United States of America.
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
Staff Directory|Google Scholar

MsApril Ward
MsApril Ward has been an active member of the Chair group and has provided support for the online webinars at the High Level Futures Literacy Summit at UNESCO, has helped elevate the Chair's online visibility, and has consulted with the Chair members with respect to linking research to policy as a means of having effect on the future.MsWard has previously worked with the Futures Literacy team at UNESCO Paris. She is currently aforesight researcher and practice manager at the School of International Futures (SOIF).
Connected with the UNESCO ChairProgrammes:
LinkedIn
UNESCO Chair Members
Current Programmes
About the UNESCO Chair
---
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Marketing Research Group | Research | University of LincolnWhoWe Are
The Marketing Research Group (MaRG) collates and develops the research calibre of a group of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are contributing to a wide range of marketing-related studies. These include marketing strategies, consumption, consumer culture, consumer behaviour, communications, advertising, digital and social media, brand management, entrepreneurial marketing and consumer technology.
By means of a wide range of scholarly activities, MaRG aims to enhance knowledge and offer insights for marketing and consumer studies in various local or global contexts, from a spectrum of perspectives that draw on cross-disciplinary approaches. Our research puts emphasis on creating and fostering sustainable values and resources for markets, consumers and related stakeholders.
With diverse background and scholarly interests of our members, we offer a number of undergraduate programmes (BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising, andBA (Hon) Business and Marketing Management) as well as postgraduate programmes (MSc Digital Marketing, MSc Management with Marketing, MSc Marketing, MPhil/PhD Marketing).
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Members
A list of members of the Marketing Research Group
Research Students
A list of research students of the Marketing Research Group
Publications and Scholarly Activity
View the latest publications and scholarly activity by members of the Marketing Research Group.
Our Research
A Self-Sustaining Business Model for the Lincoln Trauma Centre
Dr Victoria Ellis-Vowles is pleased to announce that she is working withLincoln Trauma Centre to create a self-sustaining business model.The consultancy is fundedby the European Regional Development Fund Productivity Voucher Scheme.
How Agricultural Shows can be Strategically Planned for "Blended" Events
Dr Barry Ardley is working with Northumbria University on how agricultural shows can be strategically planned for blended events that incorporate value from online and physical offerings.
Developing Home Gym's Value Offering for their Social Media Community
Dr Victoria Ellis-Vowles is pleased to announce that she is working with Home Gym UK Community to develop their value offering for their social media community. The consultancy isfundedby the European Regional Development Fund Productivity Voucher Scheme.
Understanding Intergenerational differences in visitors sustainable behaviours
Dr. Samira Zares project explores intergenerational differences in sustainability-related behaviours within the broader leisure context to inform both theory and practice about the implications of such behavioural differences
Using cultural capital for acculturation
Dr Connie Maks study draws on the sociological perspective of practice theories to explore the process of how educated and affluent immigrants from the Mainland China adapt to their new life and identities in Hong Kong through the consumption and acquisition of cultural capital
Exploring the Role of Consumption in the Acculturation Process of International Students in the Higher Education Sector
Dr Connie Mak's project adopts a processual perspective and a sociological angle to understand how students acquire and mobilize different consumption resources and practices to adapt progressively to their studying journey abroad.
Research Seminars and Public Engagements
Find out about research seminars and public engagement activities from the Marketing Research Group.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Research Students | Marketing Research Group | University of LincolnResearch Students
Thinking Of Pursuing A PhD?
We welcome applications from researchers. Contact us for more information about our MPhil/PhD.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Conference Papers | Publications &amp; Scholarly Activity | University of LincolnConference Papers
 scholarly activities and research outputs, including peer-review journal articles, books, book sections, conference papers, research grants and projects.", '2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
View More Publications & Scholarly Activity
Select a date range below to view published activity.
2019 - 2022
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2019 - 2022
2015 - 2018
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2015 - 2018
2015 - 2022
View our Conference Papers published between 2015 - 2022
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Publications 2011-2014 | Publications &amp; Scholarly Activity | University of LincolnPublications & Scholarly Activities | 2011 - 2014
 scholarly activties and research outputs, including peer-review journal articles, books, book sections, conference papers, research grants and projects.", '2014
2013
2012
2011

View More Publications & Scholarly Activity
Select a date range below to view published activity.
2019 - 2022
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2019 - 2022
2015 - 2018
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2015 - 2018
2015 - 2022
View our Conference Papers published between 2015 - 2022
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Publications 2015-2018 | Publications &amp; Scholarly Activity | University of LincolnPublications & Scholarly Activities | 2015 - 2018
 scholarly activties and research outputs, including peer-review journal articles, books, book sections, conference papers, research grants and projects.", '2018
2017
2016
2015

View More Publications & Scholarly Activity
Select a date range below to view published activity.
2019 - 2022
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2019 - 2022
2015 - 2018
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2015 - 2018
2015 - 2022
View our Conference Papers published between 2015 - 2022
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Publications &amp; Scholarly Activity | Marketing Research Group | University of LincolnPublicationsand Scholarly Activity
 scholarly activties and research outputs, including peer-review journal articles, books, book sections, conference papers, research grants and projects. Select a date range to view the activity published within that timeframe.", '
2019 - 2022
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2019 - 2022
2015 - 2018
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2015 - 2018
2015 - 2022
View our Conference Papers published between 2015 - 2022
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Publications 2019-2022 | Publications &amp; Scholarly Activity | University of LincolnPublications & Scholarly Activities | 2019 - 2022
 scholarly activties and research outputs, including peer-review journal articles, books, book sections, conference papers, research grants and projects.", '2022
2021
2020
2019

View More Publications & Scholarly Activity
Select a date range below to view published activity.
2019 - 2022
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2019 - 2022
2015 - 2018
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2015 - 2018
2015 - 2022
View our Conference Papers published between 2015 - 2022
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Research Grants | Publications &amp; Scholarly Activity | University of LincolnResearch Grants| 2003 - 2022
 scholarly activities and research outputs, including peer-review journal articles, books, book sections, conference papers, research grants and projects.", '2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2014
2013
2012
2003
View More Publications & Scholarly Activity
Select a date range below to view published activity.
2019 - 2022
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2019 - 2022
2015 - 2018
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2015 - 2018
2015 - 2022
View our Conference Papers published between 2015 - 2022
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Research Seminars and Public Engagements | Marketing Research Group | University of LincolnResearch Seminars and Public Engagements
Role Of Captions In Social Media Engagement In The Context Of Sustainability Advertising
Ms Nuzhat Neury
8 June 2022
Abstract
In recent times, brands reputation and sales are significantly influenced by social-media-users opinion. This paper used self-consumption-vision (SCV), theory of emotion, and social influence theory to explores how consumers sustainable product purchase intentions and other sustainable-behavioural intentions are influenced by the social-media-users positive/negative captions with a sustainability-ad. 279 respondents participated in a 2 (positive vs negative caption) x 2 (high vs low source expertise) between-subject experiment. The result shows that, consumers can visualise themselves consuming the advertised sustainable product more vividly for positive captions than negative captions. This higher level of consumption vision produces higher level of emotion and affect subsequent social-media-engagement with the sustainability-ad, purchase intentions and other sustainable-behavioural intentions. Types of captions and level of source expertise have significant interaction effect on social-media-engagement. More specifically, the users will engage more for positive caption than the negative caption for low source expertise is low, but people will engage more for negative caption than positive caption, when souse-expertise is high. Future research may assess the acceptability of sustainability-ad depending on social dynamics of the social-media platforms.
Exploring the Utilisation of Chatbots in Tourism
Aditya Verma
11th May 2022
Abstract
 expectations from the emerging chatbots comparative to the traditional customer support methods such as email, phone and manual chat support. The research will also review the chatbot's adoption and its benefits after coronavirus pandemic customer support services. In tourism 4.0, productive utilisation of technology for the growth of tourism is a primary focus, and hence, chatbots have the potential for strengthening customer support services. However, understanding consumer insight about chatbots clarifies consumer expectations and adoption challenges which is a guideline in the future development of hybrid tourism chatbots using artificial intelligence and machine learning for higher consumer engagement, satisfaction, and personalised communication.", 'Academia, Ambition and Adventure: How Foucauldian diagnosis can contribute to criticality
Richard Voase
30th March 2022
Abstract
The current climate for academics is challenging. Full fees engender a student-consumer mentality; smartphones give students ever-present access to the distractions of social media; institutions are relentless in digital innovation. Confronted with these challenges, how does an academic ensure that materials are adventurous as well as accessible, animating rather than inert, and meet the needs of humans rather than the demands of software?
A Foucauldian diagnosis  Foucaults choice of word - does not of itself solve the problem, if problem it be. However, Foucaults methods enable us to view a circumstance in a new light. The results can be disarmingly revealing. Michel Foucault (1926-184), social theorist, was circumspect regarding the concept of authorship. For much of the time, says Foucault, human subjects recycle sets of messages and terms  discourses  encountered elsewhere.
In this seminar, I set out to explain Foucaults argument, and the conditions under which this recycling-of-the-familiar takes place. Foucault helps us to understand what we are and are not doing when we generate discourse. Foucaults writing may appear opaque, but his methods are elegantly simple. To illustrate the utility of his approach, reference to some close-to-home examples will be made. References to Foucaults work will be provided.
"This tour was an exceptional surprise: slavery heritage tourism and the embodied absence of the past
Emmanuel Akwasi Adu-Ampong
Assistant Professor in Cultural Geography at Wageningen University & Research, The Netherlands, a co-Editor-in-Chief of the international peer-reviewed Tourism Planning and Development journal published by Routledge (Taylor & Francis) and a Research Associate at the School of Tourism and Hospitality, University of Johannesburg, South Africa.
26th January2022
Abstract
Across many European countries there is an ongoing struggle with telling the contentious stories of slavery and colonialisation. Tourism practices and performances can play a transformative role in this process of telling the stories of history and heritage. In this presentation I examine a slavery-related heritage tour: Black Heritage Amsterdam Tours (BHAT), using a framework that stresses the narrative power and transformative work of tourism in the politics of slavery heritage. BHAT is a guided walking, sightseeing and boat tour that explore Amsterdam to make visible the hidden histories of the African Diaspora and colonial history of the Netherlands from the 17th-century history. The tour weaves around the Dam Square through to the historic De Wallen neighbourhood along some of Amsterdams oldest streets and buildings, and involves a stopover at the Rijksmuseum.
I start by developing the conceptual notion of the embodied absence of the past to refer to the physical presence but narrative absence of the shared history and role of people of African descent in European societies. I then focus on how tourism practices and performances such as the BHAT makes visible and challenges this embodied absence of the past. This study seeks to highlight the transformative work of tourism by exploring what visitors take away from their tour of slavery and colonial heritage in Amsterdam. Specifically, it examines visitors thoughts about the representation of Dutch slavery and colonial heritage during the tour and their views on the physical remnants of such heritage in the built environment. Data for this study comes from 147 visitor review comments posted on the travel website TripAdvisor under the BHAT page between April 2013  August, 2020. A thematic analysis methodological approach is utilised in gaining an understanding of what visitors learn about Dutch slavery and colonial history during the tour. This study shows how the cultural imagination of slavery is negotiated in the context of the slavery heritage tourism practices seen as leisurely pursuit as well as seen as transformative memorial of the past.
Innovation in agricultural and county shows: conceptualising the e-eventscape.
Prof. Gary Bosworth (Northumbria University) and Dr Barry Ardley
10th December2021
Abstract
In response to the cancellation of a host of events during the summer of 2020, the purpose of this paper is to examine the rapid innovation that created an online County Show. County Shows are traditionally associated with agriculture and the wider rural economy of a region and provide a range of visitor experiences alongside business networking and trading opportunities. The case of the online Lincolnshire Show sought to replicate many aspects of a physical show, and this paper evaluates its effectiveness by applying a newly developed e-eventscape model. A mixed-methods approach generated data from businesses, visitors and the show organiser. Surveys and social media feedback from attendees captured overall satisfaction levels and suggestions for improvements. Participation in the online Business Breakfast event along with an interview with the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Show provided deeper understanding of the innovation occurring. The nature of innovation was strongly rooted in place, despite creating a virtual product. Local networks and supporters were critical to staging the online Show. The proposed e-eventscape model allowed an effective appraisal of the online Show, identifying many strengths in terms of the user interface and aesthetics as well as opportunities for improvement, especially linked to greater interactive engagement. The impacts of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have accelerated digital innovation in a range of events and festivals. This provides an opportunity to examine the evolving role of Shows in the rural economy and the innovation processes that have emerged. As well as presenting original insights into rural innovation, the paper develops and tests a new e-eventscape model applicable to the growing field of online events and festivals. Findings indicate that there is considerable scope for organisers to embed online content into the future of many live Shows and festivals, far beyond the COVID-19 pandemic.
Innovative methodologies: Walking-with method
Dr. Connie Mak
6th October2021
Abstract
The en-route consumer-practices have long been overlooked in consumer research, even though lifestyles, tastes and consumption practices are omnipresent on the street, on route to home and to places of work. Applied to a study of impression management and construction of professional identity, the rather new walking-with method seeks out inquisitive conversations with research participants while accompanying them to and from work. Capitalizing on the sense-stimulation effect and resonant validity generated from the physical surroundings and bodily movement, the new approach is found to be a desirable alternative or complement to the traditional sit-down narrative interviews and other research methods.
Exploring the relationship between tourism and poverty using the capability approach
Dr. Theres Winter
16th June2021
Abstract
Tourism has been regarded as a tool for development and poverty alleviation over many decades. Yet tourism research on poverty to date largely focuses on the income-based poverty analysis and does not fully consider the multidimensional nature of poverty or the views of poor people. Applying the capability approach, this paper examines the opportunities provided by tourism development and their contribution to achieving well-being from the perspectives of people living in poverty. The study was undertaken in a small coastal tourist destination in the Northeast of Brazil using a mixed- methods approach that combined quantitative value chain analysis and qualitative interviews with photo-elicitation. The findings show that participants value opportunities associated with both monetary and non-monetary tourism resources and these opportunities help them achieve diverse aspects of well-being. This study demonstrates how the capability approach can help investigate the impacts of tourism development on poverty reduction and well-being of poor people in a more holistic and nuanced way by considering the plural and relative nature of poverty and well-being.
Pubs. Selling third places by the pound: Landlords, loyalty and a labour of love
Victoria Ellis-Vowles
26th March2021
Abstract
Oldenburg (1989) proclaims the great British pub is a third place which is described as a home away from home set in a commercial outlet where customers create an environment of belonging, restoration and rejuvenation. However, the landlord assumes a role that is one of participation and integration where they take on a social supportive and community role in addition to that of a commercial manager. While Oldenburg (1989) renders the role of management invisible, the landlord is considered socially significant. This complete membership ethnography positioned the researcher backstage for 16 months to explore the role of the landlord through the lens of management to unpack the complexities and difficulties of managing a pub as a third place. The research introduces the Third Place Dependency Model which conceptualises third places as emerging from social stability which acts as a facilitator of business sustainability. It re-conceptualises the third place as a fragile socio-spatial manifestation of a feeling or a sentiment within a given place and time where the landlords role at its most basic, is to introduce and maintain social stability. The difficulty emerges when social stability is threatened by deviant customer behaviour further complicated by an embedded social servicescape. It introduces Customer Equilibrium Management (CEM) as a framework promoting ongoing positive customer experiences in a service environment through the maintenance of social stability.
Making impact with your research
Prof. Heather Hughes
11th March2021
Abstract
Impact is more than a REF exercise. Increasingly, funding bodies require evidence that impact planning has been embedded in funding applications. This session will look briefly at the visitor economy case study for the current REF but will also investigate what impact means in a broader research context, how to plan for it and how to make the most of impact that may happen by chance.
Consumers Responses to Brand Extensions: An Emotional Perspective
Tsunwai Wesley Yuen
2nd December 2020
Abstract
Brand extension (BE) strategy involves the use of an established brand to introduce similar (high fit) or dissimilar (low fit) new products in relation to the parent brands original offerings, such as product category or class. For example, Colgates electric toothbrush and Colgates ready meal represent high and low product category fit BEs, respectively. While this strategy can capitalise on the parent brands equity to grow market share, it does not always succeed. This research proposes that consumers emotional responses to BEs can hinder adoption. A growing number of marketing studies have indicated that product attributes can elicit consumers emotional responses, which influence their attitudinal and behavioural responses towards the product. While previous BE research has investigated how affective dimensions influence consumers evaluation of BEs, no research has been conducted on the effects of consumers emotional responses towards BEs. This research deploys the cognitive appraisal theory to understand how: (1) individuals interpretation of a BE situation (appraisal dimensions) precedes their emotional response, and (2) consumers emotional responses affect behaviours. Hence, the current research proposes that the BEs product category fit is the BE appraisal situation, which influences the consumers cognitive appraisal process. Then, the research draws on the consumers emotional brand attachment as a personal factor and brand name structure as a branding factor in the BE appraisal situation. These factors interact with product category fit and influence consumers emotional responses to BEs. To address these hypotheses, this research developed a scale for measuring emotions in the BE context (n = 1617). This scale is used in subsequent studies. Study 1 (n = 353) confirms that appraisal dimensions can predict consumers emotional responses in BE consumption situations. Study 2 (n = 393) demonstrates that product category fit can affect consumers emotional responses through the cognitive appraisal process, and consumers emotional brand attachment positively moderates their emotional responses through appraisal dimensions. In Study 3 (n = 370), it is found that a sub-branding strategy can weaken the negative effect of product category fit on consumers negative emotional responses. Study 4 (n = 353) replicates all results from the previous studies. Each of these studies confirms that emotional responses can influence consumers attitudinal and behavioural responses to BEs. The practical implications of these findings are also discussed
Gender, diversity and inclusion in the UK events industry
Dr. Kate Dashper (Leeds Beckett University)
28th October 2020
Abstract
The events industry provides approximately half a million full-time equivalent jobs in the UK across a range of sectors from MICE, to sports events, to arts and cultural events. Despite being female dominated in numerical terms, there is a clear glass ceiling in the industry, with women and minority groups under-represented at senior levels. This presentation reports on survey research conducted just before the pandemic plunged the events industry into uncertainty and turmoil, and interviews from the first half of the lockdown. Results illustrate the lack of diversity in the events workforce, and show clear gender differences in career success (based on pay, promotions, level of seniority) and career satisfaction. Findings are discussed in the context of the COVID-19 crisis that risks pushing diversity and inclusion off the agenda and entrenching inequality in the UK events workforce.
"Nine iconic addresses, nine extraordinary hotels, one unique collection  stylistic analysis of the language of luxury in the marketing materials of The Dorchester Collection
Dr. Malgorzata Drewniok
30th September 2020
Abstract
The Dorchester Collection (DC) is a group of 9 luxury hotels located across the globe. The hotels, the locations, and the particular buildings are chosen meticulously to create this unique collection. The word collection, an obvious borrowing from the language of fashion and design, has been chosen on purpose  to invoke carefully curated art rather than bring to mind a run-of-the-mill hotel chain. The Collection is consistent in how it presents itself, in general marketing materials, in the promotion of particular hotels, and in how its representatives speak about it. As a linguist with interest in branding and advertising, in this talk I will explore how this self-proclaimed language of luxury is employed to create a certain brand image for the Dorchester Collection. My data will be the DC booklet briefly presenting each of the hotels, the history of the specific hotels available on their websites (so-called media kits), as well as the websites themselves. I will apply stylistic analysis to these texts, with particular interest in the vocabulary and grammar choices. My aim is to find what exactly the language of luxury is  is it quantifiable at all? This area has been under-researched so far, but I will draw on the brand linguistics framework, the existing work on tourism discourse, and the examination of similar luxury hotels.
Contested heritage, colliding narratives: the visitor economy of NE Italy
Alessandro Pesaro
1st July 2020
Abstract
Located at the intersection of Latin, Germanic and Slavic cultures, this region has been deeply affected by war, shifting borders, totalitarian regimes and conflicting territorial claims. These events have shaped memories, narratives and an array of controversial memorials about dramatic events in the past. The presentation will explore this landscape and the implications for the local visitor economy
Can Being Dissimilar in Product Category be an Opportunity for Cross-gender Brand Extension?
Tsunwai Wesley Yuen
17th June 2020
Abstract
Leveraging cross-gender brand extensions (new product offerings under the same brand name to customers of the opposite sex) by gendered brands can present a way to meet the need for brand growth. However, how to implement such strategies remains a challenge. The most common approach is to launch a brand extension in the same or similar product category (high product category fit). However, in the context of cross-gender brand extension, the issue can be more complicated. Instead, using low product category fit strategy can have some advantages due to its ability to distance the extension from the parent brand. Two experimental studies confirm that introducing low (versus high) product category fit cross-gender brand extensions mitigate the parent brands brand personality dilution (i.e., masculinity or femininity), bringing more positive evaluations to the parent brand amongst existing customers and higher purchase intention amongst new target customers on the cross-gender brand extension.
Towards a theoretical framework on Internal Destination Brand Strength
Dr. Ilenia Bregoli
27th May 2020
Abstract
This seminar presents and discusses a theoretical framework on Internal Destination Branding developed on the basis of analysis of marketing and tourism literature, as well as data collected through semi-structured interviews with destination stakeholders working in four UK cities.
Reflections on eclecticism, applied and translational research in tourism studies
Dr Phil Long (Bournemouth University)
8th April 2020
Abstract
This seminar considers topics that connect tourism with substantive areas of academic research with critical policy implications. Examples from Phil's work, including alcohol and public health; 'soft power' and public diplomacy; creative industries and places and; active ageing and social prescribing will be outlined. Seminar participants will be invited to contribute their own research interests into the discussion.
Nowt much to look at': How a Piece of Mediaeval Vellum Conquered the World", 'Richard Voase and Barry Ardley
22nd January 2020
Abstract
highly inspiring' article (Medieval Histories online), the authors entertain you with the story of the Magna Carta, what it means to the people who come to see it, and how it gave them something to write about.", 'Webinars
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Members | Marketing Research Group | University of LincolnMembers
NgocNguyen
Consumer Behaviour, Sustainable Consumption, Self-control, Goal Settings, Emotions, Personal Traits and Social Identity.
AAlDabbas@lincoln.ac.uk
Consumer behaviours within VR, AR, and MR, forging captivating experiences and pioneering marketing strategies.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Publications 2001-2006 | Publications &amp; Scholarly Activity | University of LincolnPublications & Scholarly Activities | 2001 - 2006
 scholarly activties and research outputs, including peer-review journal articles, books, book sections, conference papers, research grants and projects.", '2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
View More Publications & Scholarly Activity
Select a date range below to view published activity.
2019 - 2022
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2019 - 2022
2015 - 2018
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2015 - 2018
2015 - 2022
View our Conference Papers published between 2015 - 2022
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Publications 2007-2010 | Publications &amp; Scholarly Activity | University of LincolnPublications & Scholarly Activities | 2007 - 2010
 scholarly activities and research outputs, including peer-review journal articles, books, book sections, conference papers, research grants and projects.", '2010
2009
2008
2007

View More Publications & Scholarly Activity
Select a date range below to view published activity.
2019 - 2022
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2019 - 2022
2015 - 2018
View our Publications & Scholarly Activity published between 2015 - 2018
2015 - 2022
View our Conference Papers published between 2015 - 2022
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Lincoln Economics, Accountancy, and Finance Group | Research | University of LincolnWhat Are We Doing?
TheLincoln Economics, Accountancy & Finance Research Group (LEAF) brings together economics and finance academics from University of Lincoln's International Business School and School of Social and Political Sciences, graduate students, and a diverse network of collaborators, with the aim to facilitate the creation and diffusion of rigorous and policy relevant research as well as research skills within the University, the local community, and the society at large.
Our research is based on microeconomic models encompassing heterogeneous individual and firm behaviours and extends to the functioning of particular industries as well as the macroeconomic perspective that brings in the picture the interplay of institutions, markets, and policies in the diverse contexts of developing, emerging, and developed economies.
Why Is It Important?
A well-functioning markets and a vigorous enterprises are important drivers of growth and poverty reduction. Finance is central to enterprise development and vice versa, and large parts of both areas of inquiry revolve around the behaviour and performance of individuals and firms. Understanding these behaviours and outcomes is important from theoretical and practical perspectives. Even if the markets are efficient and individuals rational most of the time, we need to worry about the times when they are not.
How Are We Different?
On the backdrop of the 2007 financial crisis, the economists have been blamed for their failure to understand the importance of finance and financiers for putting too much faith in the models produced by economists. We recognise that individuals and firms cannot be the rational actors who fit neatly into academic models and that the level of financial development is good only up to a point, after which it may negatively impact economic growth. Therefore in our research we aspire to deal with the world as it is, not the world that is easily modelled.
Group Research
Prof Shrabani Saha,Professor of Development Economics
Dr Tim Chai, Senior Lecturer
Dr David Gray, Associate Professors
Dr Geeta Lakshmi,Associate Professor
Dr David Latham, Senior Lecturer
Dr Hao Quach,Associate Professor
Dr Dragana Radicic,Associate Professor
Dr Eric Ruto,Senior Lecturer
Dr Ishak Demir,Associate Lecturer
Dr Aleksandar Vasilev,Senior Lecturer
Dr Arman Mazhikeyev, Senior Lecturer in Economics
Dr Mahfuzur Rahman,Associate Professor
Dr Nadia Gulko,Associate Professor
Dr Lilian Korir, Post Doctoral Research Associate in Social Science & Economics
Dr Davina Bird,Lecturer
Dr Erkan Demirbas,Lecturer
Dr Chau Le, Senior Lecturer
Dr Fadi Alkaraan, SeniorLecturer
Dr Kim Nguyen, SeniorLecturer
Mrs Emmanuella Uzoigwe,Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Ms Linh Nguyen,Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Mr Ryan Girdley,Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr Princely Dibia,Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr Anwesha Bandyopadhyay,Lecturer in Economics
Dr Samy Amer,Senior Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Prof. Nelson Ndubisi, Visiting Professor of Tourism Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Development
Dr Nishani Ekanayake, Lecturer in Accountancy and Finance
Dr Ngozi Adeleye, Lecturer in Economics
Dr Mehrshad Parvin Hosseini, Lecturer in International Business Economics

Bodan Liu, PhD Student, Economics
Chigozie E Chukwu, PhD Student, Economics
Nehad Laila Sanju, PhD Student, Economics
Tahmina Rasna, PhD Student, Economics
Bond University, Australia
Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium
Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta, India
City University of Hong Kong
Curtin University, Australia
Edith Cowan University, Australia
Federation University, Australia
Griffith University, Australia
Iowa State University, USA
IQRA University, Pakistan
Manchester University, UK
Massey University, New Zealand
Middlesex University, UK
Mongolia International University, Mongolia
Qatar University, UAE
Slovak Agricultural University, Slovakia
The University of British Columbia, Canada
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia
University of Calcutta  India
University College Dublin
University of Kent, UK
University of Newcastle, UK
University of Nottingham, Malaysia Campus
University of Wisconsin - La Crosse  USA
Wageningen University, Netherlands
Western Sydney University, Australia
University of Otago, New Zealand
UNU-WIDER
University of Waikato, New Zealand
The Department ofthe Treasury,AustralianGovernment, Canberra
Centurion University, INDIA
CRY -Child Rights and You, INDIA
Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment(MBIE), Wellington, New Zealand
University of Edinburgh
University of Texas at San Antonio, USA
Teagasc, Agriculture and Food Development Authority, Ireland
Research at Lincoln International Business School
Community Organisation Research Group
The group researches community organisation, self-organisation and development within Third Sector organisations, multi-agency networks and community groups, focusing on community-based research in Active Citizenship, Wellbeing and Community Development.
Responsible Management Research Group
The group's research focus is responsible management. Its aim is to contribute new knowledge in ways that improve understanding of responsible management as a concept and as practice.
Visitor Economy Research Group
The Visitor Economy Research Group (VERG) concentrates on projects in the areas of tourism, events and leisure.
Marketing Research Group
The Marketing Research Group (MaRG) collates and develops the research calibre of a group of colleagues, both early career and well established, who are contributing to a wide range of marketing-related studies. These include marketing strategies, consumption, consumer culture, consumer behaviour, communications, advertising, digital and social media, brand management, entrepreneurial marketing and consumer technology.
Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group
The group has a growing track record of social and economic development research, including locally, nationally, and internationally funded projects aimed at investigating the role of innovation and entrepreneurship in the developments of regions.
PhD Opportunities
Lincoln International Business School welcomes applications from students wanting to pursue research study at the postgraduate level, offering a range of opportunities to undertake business-related research.
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Accountancy, Finance and Economics | Postgraduate Programmes | University of LincolnPostgraduate Study in Accountancy, Finance and Economics

The Accountancy, Finance and Economics department at the University of Lincoln can provide students with the advanced knowledge and skills needed for success in a global business environment. Comprising of a faculty of highly experienced professionals conducting cutting-edge research, our programmes are designed to equip students with a comprehensive understanding of the accounting, finance, and economics sectors, as well as the analytical and critical thinking skills needed to excel in these fields.
Our Programmes
MSc Governance
As corporate governance is now an integral part of everyday business, the MSc Governance programme is designed to be relevant and attractive to a wide variety of candidates and job roles across different sectors.

MSc Finance
s market need to be adept at managing investments of both a financial and economic nature, and use sound and informed judgement in order to make crucial decisions.", '
MSc International Investment Banking
MSc International Investment Banking is designed for those who wish to pursue a career in the investment banking sector where demand is high for specialists with applicable knowledge of corporate finance, portfolio theory, investment, and commercial banking across the global market.

MSc Accounting and Finance
MSc Accounting and Finance provides students with the opportunity to gain a clear understanding of the joint role of accounting and finance in ensuring successful operations in a range of business settings. Students can develop their understanding of the key principles and practical skills required to prepare and analyse accounts and related financial information, and learn about financial management decision making and the methods used to raise finance for companies.

 Discover more Postgraduate Programmes at Lincoln International Business School
Unlocking Your Potential in Accountancy, Finance, and Economics
Catch up with academics from our Accountancy, Finance, and Economcis department and hear about the range of programmes we offer, specialist support, industry leading tools and the opportunities our students have access to.
Study With Us
Situated in the heart of a beautiful and historic city, we are placed among the worlds top 150 universities in the Times Higher Educations (THE) Young University Rankings 2023, and hold a five-star score overall in the QS Stars rating system of global universities.
Whether you are thinking about coming to study or undertake research with us, you can be confident that you are joining a university that places the quality of the student experience at the heart of everything it does.
Employers are increasingly looking for individuals who can make a difference in todays global workplace. With our expert staff, modern facilities, close links with business, andpioneering research we aim to provide the tools you need to achieve your career aspirations.
Choose Lincoln
There are many great reasons why our students and staff are proud of the University of Lincoln, including our inspirational teaching, world-leading research, and close links with industry.
Explore Lincoln
Fees and Funding
There are now more ways than ever to fund your postgraduate study. At the University of Lincoln, we believe financial background should not be a barrier to postgraduate study.
See Your Options
Student Life at Lincoln
Visit our student life blog for a taste of everything that goes on in Lincoln, including plenty of tips and advice to get the most from your time here.
Find Out More
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Marketing, Languages and Tourism | Postgraduate Programmes | University of LincolnPostgraduate Study in Marketing and Tourism

Welcome to the Marketing, Languages and Tourism department at Lincoln International Business School. As postgraduate students, you will have the opportunity to immerse yourselves in the fast-paced worlds of marketing and tourism, to develop a deep understanding of consumer behaviour, market trends, and strategic planning. Our expert faculty and cutting-edge facilities can provide you with the tools you need to succeed in these exciting and competitive fields.
Our Programmes
MSc International Tourism Management
s MSc International Tourism Management is designed in collaboration with industry to respond to the complex needs of employers, preparing students for a changing business landscape. Important themes such as entrepreneurship, sustainability, and globalism are integral to the programme. Traditional teaching methods are augmented by industry events and workshops, and mentoring and coaching is offered throughout the degree by experienced academics and practitioners in the field.", '

With the rebound of global tourism set to continue, two degree courses in international tourism management at the University of Lincoln, UK, have received recognition for their commitment to providing an excellent student experience and graduate employment skills.
The voice of destination management, the Tourism Management Institute (TMI), has recognised the Universitys BA (Hons) International Tourism Management and MSc International Tourism Management courses for their industry relevance and future employment prospects for graduates. Its recognition scheme provides an assurance that both courses meet a set of criteria, benchmarks and standards aligned to the needs of the broadly defined tourism sector.
MSc Fashion Management
Covering three disciplinary areas of management, marketing, and fashion, this course aims to produce graduates who are able to analyse consumer and society trends to develop effective purchasing, retail, and promotional strategies. Students have the opportunity to undertake live assessments and gain hands-on experience through the student-as-producer approach.

 Discover more Postgraduate Programmes at Lincoln International Business School
Elevate Your Future in Marketing and Tourism
Catch up with academics from ourMarketing and Tourismdepartment and hear about the range of programmes we offer, specialist support, industry leading tools and the opportunities our students have access to.
Study With Us
Situated in the heart of a beautiful and historic city, we are placed among the worlds top 150 universities in the Times Higher Educations (THE) Young University Rankings 2023, and hold a five-star score overall in the QS Stars rating system of global universities.
Whether you are thinking about coming to study or undertake research with us, you can be confident that you are joining a university that places the quality of the student experience at the heart of everything it does.
Employers are increasingly looking for individuals who can make a difference in todays global workplace. With our expert staff, modern facilities, close links with business, andpioneering research we aim to provide the tools you need to achieve your career aspirations.
Choose Lincoln
There are many great reasons why our students and staff are proud of the University of Lincoln, including our inspirational teaching, world-leading research, and close links with industry.
Explore Lincoln
Fees and Funding
There are now more ways than ever to fund your postgraduate study. At the University of Lincoln, we believe financial background should not be a barrier to postgraduate study.
See Your Options
Student Life at Lincoln
Visit our student life blog for a taste of everything that goes on in Lincoln, including plenty of tips and advice to get the most from your time here.
Find Out More
Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Vicky Addison | University of LincolnIn this section
Assistant Director and Head of Business Incubation, Innovation and Growth at the University of Lincoln; responsible for leading the strategic development and delivery of business innovation and growth programmes which aim to drive business start-up and innovation across the Greater Lincolnshire area. This includes delivery of externally funded business support programmes, strategic oversight of both Think Tank and Sparkhouse, student and graduate business enterprise support, Greater Lincolnshire Innovation Council, Educational Contracts and oversight of Project Selbourne.



Marketing and Tourism | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnMarketing and Tourism
Welcome
Welcome to Marketing and Tourismat Lincoln International Business School.We have a range of specialist subject areas from marketing and advertising to tourism, events, and sports business management.
With an experienced team of academics, research, and industry professionals, we are expertly placed to deliver contemporary knowledge underpinned by real world examples giving students the knowledge andskills needed to thrive in their chosen careers.
Our commitment to the Principles of Responsible Management Education and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals aim to develop graduates who are ready to take on future challenges within their respective disciplines.
Marketing
Marketing and advertising at Lincoln International Business School offers practical, dynamic, academic, and vocational skills in a world where marketing is a critical element ofmany businesses and organisations.
Our distinguished academics and industry experts can provide students with the knowledge and skills required to succeed in careers in business, marketing, and advertising. In addition, accreditation bythe Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) gives graduates the opportunity to stand out with an industryrecognised professional recognition alongside their degree.
Whether you aspire to lead ground-breaking marketing campaigns, manage influential brands, or shape marketing strategy on a global scale, we are here to guide you towards a prosperous and fulfilling career.
Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate courses we offer in Marketing, Tourism, and Sports Business Management
Explore Courses
Postgraduate Programmes
Explore the postgraduate programmes we offer in Marketing, Tourism, and Sports Business Management.
Explore Programmes
Research
Discover the exciting research taking place within our Marketing, Tourism, and Sports Business Management research community.
Discover Our Research
Our Marketing Graduates Have Gone On To Work For
ASOS

BAE Systems

Bentley

Boots

Bosch

Cummins

Disney

Dunlop

Goodyear

GSK

HP

IBM

Lincolnshire County Council

Loral

Marks & Spencer

Microsoft

Network Rail

NHS

Panasonic

PWC

Ricoh

Siemens

Sky

TNT

Urban Outfitters

Vauxhall

VW

Warner Bros

ASOS

BAE Systems

Bentley

Boots

Bosch

Cummins

Disney

Dunlop

Goodyear

GSK

HP

IBM

Lincolnshire County Council

Loral

Marks & Spencer

Microsoft

Network Rail

NHS

Panasonic

PWC

Ricoh

Siemens

Sky

TNT

Urban Outfitters

Vauxhall

VW

Warner Bros

England Golf

HomeLet

Leicester Tigers

Lincoln City Football Club

The Lincolnshire Showground

The Marriott

The Ministry of Defence

Movistar

Australian Marketing Institute

The Chartered Institute of Marketing

The Institute of Hospitality

the Tourism Management Institute

s Journey", '
Tourism, Events, and Sports Business Management
The tourism, events, and sports industries are some of the most exciting and dynamic in the world, they offer a vast range of career opportunities from working in travel and tourism, to hospitality and event management, or sports administration. Our programmes are designed to help students develop the knowledge and understanding they need to take advantage of such opportunities in these rapidly developing sectors.
Ranked fifth overall in the UK in the Guardian University Guide 2024, our hospitality, event management, and tourism programmes are delivered by experienced academics and industry professionals. We teach a comprehensive understanding of the different aspects that make up the hospitality, event management and tourism industries, such as marketing, leadership and management, and sustainability and ethics.
Underpinned by industryrecognised accreditations fromthe Institute of Hospitality, andthe Tourism Management Institute, our programmes focus on equipping students with the knowledge and skills to stand out and gain success in their chosen career paths.

Our Tourism and Events Graduates Have Gone on to Work For ... 
England Golf

HomeLet

Leicester Tigers

Lincoln City Football Club

The Lincolnshire Showground

The Marriott

The Ministry of Defence

Movistar

ASOS

BAE Systems

Bentley

Boots

Bosch

Cummins

Disney

Dunlop

Goodyear

GSK

HP

IBM

Lincolnshire County Council

Loral

Marks & Spencer

Microsoft

Network Rail

NHS

Panasonic

PWC

Ricoh

Siemens

Sky

TNT

Urban Outfitters

Vauxhall

VW

Warner Bros

England Golf

HomeLet

Leicester Tigers

Lincoln City Football Club

The Lincolnshire Showground

The Marriott

The Ministry of Defence

Movistar

Australian Marketing Institute

The Chartered Institute of Marketing

The Institute of Hospitality

the Tourism Management Institute

s Journey", 'Hear from Erin, an BSc (Hons) Events Management student at Lincoln International Business School, who shares her journey so far.

Accreditations
Programme specific accreditations give successful graduates the opportunirty to gain industry-recognised status alongside their degree.
Australian Marketing Institute

The Chartered Institute of Marketing

The Institute of Hospitality

the Tourism Management Institute

ASOS

BAE Systems

Bentley

Boots

Bosch

Cummins

Disney

Dunlop

Goodyear

GSK

HP

IBM

Lincolnshire County Council

Loral

Marks & Spencer

Microsoft

Network Rail

NHS

Panasonic

PWC

Ricoh

Siemens

Sky

TNT

Urban Outfitters

Vauxhall

VW

Warner Bros

England Golf

HomeLet

Leicester Tigers

Lincoln City Football Club

The Lincolnshire Showground

The Marriott

The Ministry of Defence

Movistar

Australian Marketing Institute

The Chartered Institute of Marketing

The Institute of Hospitality

the Tourism Management Institute

Global Experiences
 employability potential through a programme of activities including business professional mentoring, employability-focussed trips to companies and organisations, guest lectures and networking events.", 'Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Accountancy, Finance and Economics | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnAccountancy, Finance, and Economics
Welcome
Accountancy, Finance, and Economics at Lincoln International Business School is home to a team of world-renownedacademics who are experts in their field. We offer a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduateprogrammes that can help to prepare students for successful careers in and around these disciplines.
Our programmes can provide students with a solid foundation in the fundamentals of accounting, finance, and economics, such as financial accounting, auditing, taxation, corporate finance, investment analysis, and economic theory.
With programmesaccredited by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA),the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA),the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) andthe Association of International Accountants (AIA),we are confident that we have the academic offering to assist you to meet your career goals.
Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate courses we offer in Accountancy, Finance, and Economics.
Explore Courses
Postgraduate Programmes
Explore the postgraduate programmes we offer in Accountancy, Finance, and Economics.
Explore Programmes
Research
Discover the exciting research taking place within our Accountancy, Finance, and Economics research community.
Discover Our Research
Our Accountancy, Finance, and Economic Graduates Have Gone On To Work For...
AON

BNP Paribas

Boots

British Sugar

Duncan & Toplis

Grant Thornton

HM Treasury

HM Revenue & Customs

Invesco

Jimmy Choo

JP Morgan

National Audit Office

Newark & Sherwood District Council

PwC

Santander

Shell

Siemens

Streets

Throgmorton

University of Lincoln

Xerox

AON

BNP Paribas

Boots

British Sugar

Duncan & Toplis

Grant Thornton

HM Revenue & Customs

HM Treasury

Invesco

Jimmy Choo

JP Morgan

National Audit Office

Newark & Sherwood District Council

PwC

Santander

Shell

Siemens

Streets

Throgmorton

University of Lincoln

Xerox

The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)

The Association of International Accountants (AIA)

Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)

Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)

Bloomberg, and the Lincoln Student Managed Investment Fund
Complementing our academic initiatives, we proudly host the Bloomberg Lab, which provides students with access to cutting-edge financial data and tools, enabling them to gain hands-on experience in real-world financial analysis and decision-making.
Furthermore, we take immense pride in fostering a practical learning environment through theLincoln Student Managed Investment Fund (LSMIF). Operated and maintained entirely by students within our school, LSMIF immersesstudents in the dynamic realm of finance, providing invaluable experience and insights to prepare them for the financial industry's challenges and opportunities.
This fusion of quality academicprogrammes, state-of-the-art resources like the Bloomberg Lab, and the experiential learning offered by the Lincoln Student Managed Investment Fund enable our commitment to nurturing the next generation of accomplished professionals in accounting, finance, and economics.
Bloomberg
Lincoln International Business School offers students the opportunity to use Bloomberg, giving access to real-time financial market data and industry-standard software. The Bloomberg Terminal facilitates better-informed investment decisions by providing the latest market news, historical data, and a secure international network for communication. The facility serves as a practical resource for students to reinforce theories learned in lectures and gain familiarity with tools used by financial services professionals.
Lincoln International Business Schools Student Managed Investment Fund (LSMIF)
The Lincoln Student Managed Investment Fund (LSMIF) is a fully functional, real-life investment fund managed by students with the support and guidance of our expect academics, enabling valuable, hands-on experience and developing industry-relevant skills.
s Journey", 'Hear from Chloe, a final year BA (Hons) Accounting and Finance student at Lincoln International Business School, who shares her journey so far.

Accreditations
Programme specific accreditations give successful graduates the opportunity to gain industry-recognised status alongside their degree.
The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)

The Association of International Accountants (AIA)

Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)

Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)

AON

BNP Paribas

Boots

British Sugar

Duncan & Toplis

Grant Thornton

HM Revenue & Customs

HM Treasury

Invesco

Jimmy Choo

JP Morgan

National Audit Office

Newark & Sherwood District Council

PwC

Santander

Shell

Siemens

Streets

Throgmorton

University of Lincoln

Xerox

The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)

The Association of International Accountants (AIA)

Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)

Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)

Global Experiences
 employability potential through a programme of activities including business professional mentoring, employability-focused trips to companies and organisations, guest lectures, and networking events.", 'Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


Management | Lincoln International Business School | University of LincolnManagement
Welcome
Management at Lincoln International Business School offers a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes that can prepare students for success in the global business world.
Our teaching staff are highly experienced and have a wealth of knowledge and expertise in their respective fields. We pride ourselves on providing students with an excellent learning experience combining knowledge with real-world examples and practical, hands-on opportunities.
With professional accreditations by the Chartered Management Institute, the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, andthe Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport, we are confident that we have the programme to meet your career goals.
Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate courses we offer in Management.
Explore Courses
Postgraduate Programmes
Explore the postgraduate programmes we offer in Management.
Explore Programmes
Research
Discover the exciting research taking place within our Management community.
Discover Our Research
Our Management Graduates Have Gone On To Work For
Amazon

Barclays

BNY Mellon

Emirates

Enterprise

Honda

IBM

Jaguar Land Rover

NHS

Sky

Amazon

Barclays

BNY Mellon

Emirates

Enterprise

Honda

IBM

Jaguar Land Rover

NHS

Sky

The Chartered Management Institute

The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development

The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport

Clearing Now Open
Places available for courses starting in September 2023.
s Journey", 'Hear from Callum, a BA (Hons) Business and Management student at Lincoln International Business School, who shares his journey so far.

Accreditations
Programme specific accreditations give successful graduates the opportunity to gain industry-recognised status alongside their degree.
The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport

The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development

The Chartered Management Institute

Amazon

Barclays

BNY Mellon

Emirates

Enterprise

Honda

IBM

Jaguar Land Rover

NHS

Sky

The Chartered Management Institute

The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development

The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport

Global Experiences
 employability potential through a programme of activities which include business professional mentoring, employability-focused trips to companies and organisations, guest lectures, and networking events.", 'Connect with Us


Lincoln International Business School, University of Lincoln, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AT, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1522 835509 | Email: libs@lincoln.ac.uk


BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management | SBS-ED | University of LincolnBSc Human Resource Management (Open)
Enquire Today
Email:wbdladmin@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management. Students can apply and develop their knowledge and skills as HR practitioners while exploring HRM from a strategic perspective.
This work-based distance learning programme is designed to provide an opportunity for academic recognition to those who are already employed within the discipline of human resource management, or one of its specialist areas, but who have yet to gain academic and professional recognition of their skills and experience.
The programme will seek to develop students professional competence and enable them to enhance and embellish specific knowledge, skills and abilities relating to their chosen speciality.
The BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is informed by the latest CIPD intermediate level professional standards. In order to achieve professional standing in the HR field great importance must be placed upon professional skills development and the application of knowledge into a distinct range of practical situations. As a result, the teaching team will take as its underpinning delivery strategy the student as producer concept, and will actively encourage and expect students to develop their own approaches to assessment tasks through the application of theoretical concepts to their own working environment.
How You Study
This flexible learning programme can be tailored to individual needs and circumstances and provides an academically rigorous learning environment within which students have the opportunity to extend skills, expertise, knowledge, vision and personal/career development by:
The programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating the acquisition of knowledge, skills and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness. This programme is designed to be flexible and dynamic enough to reflect and absorb change and encourage the development of a range of skills and knowledge that may be needed to rise to the challenges of the contemporary workplace.
The programme presents a distance-learning framework to enable individuals to complete the programme within a two year period - the duration reflects personal circumstances, accredited experience, prior learning and work commitments.
Modules
Critical Enquiry Skills
Module Synopsis
This module aims to equip students with appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their Level 3 studies, and the Independent Research Project in particular. Students will have been introduced to the nature of academic research and writing through the precursor modules at Levels 1 and 2.This module builds on existing student understanding of enquiry methods and academic writing in order to enhance competency in argumentation and capability in research design. Students are introduced to core skills of literature review: critical thinking, organisation, reflection and evaluation. Literature reviews serve a variety of purposes but are often the starting point in the arguments of discovery and advocacy associated with enquiry and investigation. The RAE (2008) definition of research can be used as a starting point : Research is to be understood as original investigation undertaken in order to gain knowledge and understanding. The Student As Producer definition (User Guide, 2010-2011, 6) directs that progressively What matters is that in certain research-engaged teaching and learning situations is less the originality of the research outcome than the manner in which it is acquired.In the context of WBDL it is important to recognise the value of multi-modal texts and settings, both as integral to the research environment and sources of valid information. Moreover, students will build a critical understanding of different research designs in order to evaluate existing knowledge as well as inform their own investigations.Enquiry is presented as a messy rather than prescriptive process involving a series of choices and dilemmas, including those associated with ethics and responsible management. Whilst students are introduced to the range of research designs, the module places particular emphasis on those relevant to work based research enquiry: case study, mixed method, action research and systematic review. Progressively, in line with Student As Producer principles and practices of discovery, evaluation and uncertainty, the new student will gain a legitimate contribution to the research process in Higher Education, and an authentic experience.
Assessment
The assessment comprises a portfolio of work which may include: a short written evaluation of relevant published academic research; annotated bibliographic work; problem identification tasks and outline research designs; resolution of ethical dilemmas.The portfolio will be the equivalent of 3000 words (+/- 10%)
Integrating Leadership and Management Experience
Module Synopsis
This module is designed to develop and assess the students ability to reflect critically on leadership and management professional practice and experiences. The expectation is that academic theory and literature will be critically reviewed and applied to the professional experience and organisational context to allow for personal development planning.Reflection as a technique for aiding and reinforcing learning is a powerful tool in professional development and a wide range of other learning situations and environments. Reflective practice is essentially about learning and developing through examining own perceptions of what happened and considering how the event may be perceived by others. At an organisational level, critical reflection is the basis for maintaining the appropriate alignment of an organisation with its environment and as such, forms the basis for strategic planning and organisational change. It can, if used correctly, act as a catalyst for continual development in the essential management disciplines of: people, resource, performance, conflict, and change, in a rapidly changing leadership and managerial environment.There are many different approaches to reflection. This module will utilise the format of a structured Reflective Learning Log as a useful tool for reflective practice. A Reflective Learning Log is more than a simple diary of events: it is intended to chart progress, thinking and development, and knowledge construction. The thought and discipline associated with the writing and production of the Reflective Learning Log, supports the overall aim of learning through reflection
Assessment
s leadership and management professional practice and provide opportunity for development of a professional development plan. The main body of the report will be based on management themes arising from the 2000 word Reflective Learning Log. The submission should demonstrate the student's ability to understand, analyse and apply academic theory and thinking to a practical leadership and managerial environment, evidenced by appropriate academic rigour.", 'HRM Professional Impact
Module Synopsis
This module explores and critically analyses the impact that HR professionals have on the organisation in the achievement of its goals. It focuses on ways in which proactive, skilled people managers and HR professionals can develop business acumen, behaviours and skills that contribute to and demonstrate HRM's value to organisational health. The module also critically evaluates how HR practices contribute to a healthy, thriving workplace, ethical management, internal communication and collaboration . Students will apply their learning to their workplace environment and experience to contextualise the academic discussion.
Evidence Based Decision Making
Module Synopsis
This Evidence-based Decision Making module explores how HR professionals can develop an evidence-based approach to their work through the use and application of evidence, including organisational data, research, stakeholder insights and their own professional expertise and knowledge. This module reflects the rising demand for HR professionals to understand and manage people analytics.
Employee Engagement and Communication
Module Synopsis
This module enables the student to develop and demonstrate a sound understanding of the knowledge, skills and behaviours required by Human Resources (HR) professionals and people managers, specifically relating to developing and maintaining employee engagement and to develop and manage effective employee communications.
Independent Research Project
The dissertation is the capstone project of the programme. It provides the student the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The student will have the opportunity to demonstrate their capacity to work independently on a major project, the nature of should be negotiated with their Programme Leader and Dissertation Coordinator. However, the focus of this project should be a real-world issue or a research topic, executed in a manner consistent with the core philosophy and values of Lincoln International Business School (LIBS). Moreover, the student will work under supervision of an academic tutor to research, develop and present their study for assessment following an agreed format. Whilst it is envisaged that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of a LIBS programme, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with the supervisor, Dissertation Coordinator and Programme Leader.
Assessment
A Learning Plan will be agreed between students and tutors, which will ensure mutuality of intent, process, practice and format of assessment.
The module will be assessed by:
What We Look For In Your Application
Work-based Distance Learning students need to be in employment and have some management responsibilities, this can be management of people or resources. You will need to have completed a Senior Management Development Programme at USB:ED within the last 5 years in order to be eligible.
Entry Requirements
Each programme is designed to meet the needs of students in anyorganisation who want to upgrade their operations skills and progress their qualifications to degree level. To qualify for direct entry we request the completion of a Senior Management Development Programme at USB:ED within the last 5 years, and on-going employment in a relevant field to the course subject area in order to qualify.
Fees
The current fees are 4,050 for the full two year programme.
Application Deadlines and Programme Start Dates
AACSB Business Education Alliance Member
Lincoln International Business School is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association, connecting educators, students, and business to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.


Shubesco Heilbron | Case Studies | University of LincolnShubesco Heilbron

Why did you choose to study this course?
After having successfully completed the Senior Management Development Programme (SMDP) at the University of Stellenbosch Business School in South Africa, I obtained credits towards enrolling for a BA Honours degree in Business Management from the University of Lincoln in the United Kingdom. My successful completion of the SMDP programme allowed me to be recognised for 240 credits towards my BA Honours degree in Business Management and I therefore decided to register with the University of Lincoln for the outstanding 120 credits.
Why did you choose to study with the University of Lincoln? Are you pleased you made that decision?
I consider myself to be an effective independent learner that is self-motivated, able to manage my time and personal learning process effectively according to my personal development plan. The Work Based Distance Learning approach (WBDL) used by the University of Lincoln perfectly supports my part-time learning style approach. Together with the flexibility and online / virtual infrastructure (Blackboard) that the University provides for communicating, the WBDL approach towards learning makes for a perfect recipe for a full-time employed individual like me to develop myself further and still be able to perform my daily functions as a full-time employee. When things become pressurised at work I am able to take a study break / holiday when it suits my circumstances. This type of flexibility alone is worth its weight in gold.
What are you enjoying/did you enjoy most about your chosen course?
I enjoyed the fact that all the units in the WBDL programme made provision for real time application of theory in my work environment. As I was progressing through each unit, immediate direct benefits were derived for me and my organization. I cannot even begin to start describing how much satisfaction such an experience provides. This approach is tremendously stimulating especially when it comes to solving real-time issues in the workplace.
What are/were the positive aspects of your course on you and your career?
The most positive aspects relate to the direct and immediate application of lessons learned in my place of work from the various modules that made up the course. As a result of this course I am now much better empowered and positioned to be able to assist my organisation to manage our ever changing environment more effectively.
Have any of the modules you have undertaken had particular impact on your role or your employer? If so, how?
All the modules impacted me and my employer positively. The one aspect that requires highlighting is my learning regarding the study of reflection. Before my study of reflection, I was using the term relatively loose to describe how I perceive/experience a situation. After my learning of what reflection really is, I was able to engage my environment in a much more structured manner with the help of reflection logs and be able to reflect and learn from any situation no matter how intense. The change management module impacted my employer positively. I was able to contribute in collaboration with our Organizational Development partner in HR towards developing a change management framework which my employer used to manage the change effectively in one of our biggest ever IT projects, called TITAN.
What advice would you give to someone else looking at this course?
Taking into account the flexibility and the high quality structured modular content, I would advise anyone, especially full- time working individuals, to seriously consider including a course like this in their personal development plan. There are similar courses available but when it comes to quality, integrity and international recognition, it is extremely challenging to find a better match. Potential international students can now obtain a credible internationally recognized business degree qualification that wont cost them an arm and a leg. Now that is truly exciting!
Do you have any further comments about the course or the University?
Tutor contact is very professional and timeous. Tutors engage and respond timeously ensuring that students are always making progress. The monitoring efforts of the progress panel are very effective. The online platform referred to as the Blackboard is a very effective medium for the distance learning students, it provides as sense of being on virtual campus.
For further details please contactwbdladmin@lincoln.ac.uk


BSc (Hons) Logistics Management | SBS-ED | University of LincolnBSc (Hons) Logistics Management
Enquire Today
Email:wbdladmin@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
 capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.", 'This work-based distance learning programme is designed to provide those working within an appropriate environment, and commonly already holding professional qualifications, the management skills to effectively and efficiently manage their work areas. The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skills students may have already developed during the course of their employment.
The course aims develop of a broad range of logistics management knowledge and skills such as leading people, budgeting, managing the organisation and managing systems. The programme offers elective modules to allow students to choose their own learning journey. Students can make choices concerning their role within the organisation and the particular logistics function they operate in.
The Lincoln International Business School subscribes to the Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME), which establishes a set of principles to guide our educational endeavour to address global challenges and create a better future for society. These principles are embedded in our programmes through the notion of The Lincoln Responsible Management Graduate:
Through educational experiences at Lincoln our students develop as people who understand their responsibilities as global citizens, as entrepreneurs, as managers of people, money and resources, as stewards of the economy and the environment and as self-reflective leaders setting future agendas for organisations.'", 'The programme aims to provide:
How You Study
This flexible learning programme can be tailored to individual needs and circumstances, and provides an academically rigorous learning environment within which students have the opportunity to extend skills, expertise, knowledge, vision and personal/career development by:
The programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating the development of knowledge, skills and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness.
The programme provides a distance-learning framework to enable individuals to complete the programme within a two year period - the duration reflects personal circumstances, accredited experience, prior learning and work commitments.
Modules
Critical Enquiry Skills
Module Synopsis
This module aims to equip students with appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their Level 3 studies, and the Independent Research Project in particular. Students will have been introduced to the nature of academic research and writing through the precursor modules at Levels 1 and 2.This module builds on existing student understanding of enquiry methods and academic writing in order to enhance competency in argumentation and capability in research design. Students are introduced to core skills of literature review: critical thinking, organisation, reflection and evaluation. Literature reviews serve a variety of purposes but are often the starting point in the arguments of discovery and advocacy associated with enquiry and investigation. The RAE (2008) definition of research can be used as a starting point : Research is to be understood as original investigation undertaken in order to gain knowledge and understanding. The Student As Producer definition (User Guide, 2010-2011, 6) directs that progressively What matters is that in certain research-engaged teaching and learning situations is less the originality of the research outcome than the manner in which it is acquired.In the context of WBDL it is important to recognise the value of multi-modal texts and settings, both as integral to the research environment and sources of valid information. Moreover, students will build a critical understanding of different research designs in order to evaluate existing knowledge as well as inform their own investigations.Enquiry is presented as a messy rather than prescriptive process involving a series of choices and dilemmas, including those associated with ethics and responsible management. Whilst students are introduced to the range of research designs, the module places particular emphasis on those relevant to work based research enquiry: case study, mixed method, action research and systematic review. Progressively, in line with Student As Producer principles and practices of discovery, evaluation and uncertainty, the new student will gain a legitimate contribution to the research process in Higher Education, and an authentic experience.
Assessment
The assessment comprises a portfolio of work which may include: a short written evaluation of relevant published academic research; annotated bibliographic work; problem identification tasks and outline research designs; resolution of ethical dilemmas.The portfolio will be the equivalent of 3000 words (+/- 10%)
Integrating Leadership and Management Experience
Module Synopsis
This module is designed to develop and assess the students ability to reflect critically on leadership and management professional practice and experiences. The expectation is that academic theory and literature will be critically reviewed and applied to the professional experience and organisational context to allow for personal development planning.Reflection as a technique for aiding and reinforcing learning is a powerful tool in professional development and a wide range of other learning situations and environments. Reflective practice is essentially about learning and developing through examining own perceptions of what happened and considering how the event may be perceived by others. At an organisational level, critical reflection is the basis for maintaining the appropriate alignment of an organisation with its environment and as such, forms the basis for strategic planning and organisational change. It can, if used correctly, act as a catalyst for continual development in the essential management disciplines of: people, resource, performance, conflict, and change, in a rapidly changing leadership and managerial environment.There are many different approaches to reflection. This module will utilise the format of a structured Reflective Learning Log as a useful tool for reflective practice. A Reflective Learning Log is more than a simple diary of events: it is intended to chart progress, thinking and development, and knowledge construction. The thought and discipline associated with the writing and production of the Reflective Learning Log, supports the overall aim of learning through reflection
Assessment
s leadership and management professional practice and provide opportunity for development of a professional development plan. The main body of the report will be based on management themes arising from the 2000 word Reflective Learning Log. The submission should demonstrate the student's ability to understand, analyse and apply academic theory and thinking to a practical leadership and managerial environment, evidenced by appropriate academic rigour.", 'Strategic Supply Chain Management
Module Synopsis
The aim of this module is to enable students to critically examine the supply chain and to understand the key role that the Supply Chain Manger has to play within successful organisations. Students can evaluate some of the key issues that shape the development and selection of appropriate supply chain strategy in light of the growing requirement to achieve competitive advantage and overall value within the global market place. Finally, against growing calls for increasingly efficient supply chains, students to will be given the opportunity to evaluate the influence of emergent academic concepts within the field.
Elective
The elective module affords students the opportunity to tailor their programme to their interests and choose a specific management function to study as their penultimate module, with elective modules exploring areas of personal and professional development, occupational health, managing project, strategy and supply chain. All electives include an assessment of a 3000 word portfolio. The following elective modules are available:
Elective
The elective module affords students the opportunity to tailor their programme to their interests and choose a specific management function to study as their penultimate module, with elective modules exploring areas of personal and professional development, occupational health, managing project, strategy and supply chain. All electives include an assessment of a 3000 word portfolio. The following elective modules are available:
Independent Research Project
The dissertation is the capstone project of the programme. It provides the student the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The student will have the opportunity to demonstrate their capacity to work independently on a major project, the nature of should be negotiated with their Programme Leader and Dissertation Coordinator. However, the focus of this project should be a real-world issue or a research topic, executed in a manner consistent with the core philosophy and values of Lincoln International Business School (LIBS). Moreover, the student will work under supervision of an academic tutor to research, develop and present their study for assessment following an agreed format. Whilst it is envisaged that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of a LIBS programme, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with the supervisor, Dissertation Coordinator and Programme Leader.
Assessment
A Learning Plan will be agreed between students and tutors, which will ensure mutuality of intent, process, practice and format of assessment.
The module will be assessed by:
How You Are Assessed
formative' assessments to provide a key element of the learning experience. Students will have the opportunity for formative assessment on all assessment elements.", 'Where students submit written work it is submitted electronically via Blackboard. Feedback on assessments will be delivered electronically in line with the university of Lincoln regulations.
For each module there will be an assignment brief which will include details of the intended learning outcomes for the module, the assignment tasks to be undertaken, and the weighting of the assignment tasks.
s will be used extensively where appropriate combined with alternative and innovate assessment methods. Portfolio assessments could include reports, case studies, descriptions, reviews, reflective learning accounts, presentations, projects, proposals and plans, with accompanying critical commentary.", 'Portfolio assessments are designed to enable students to demonstrate how they have applied their knowledge and understanding, skills and behaviours in a real work environment and in a range of ways to achieve real work objectives.
What We Look For In Your Application
Work-based Distance Learning students need to be in employment and have some management responsibilities, this can be management of people or resources. You will need to have completed a Senior Management Development Programme at USB:ED within the last 5 years in order to be eligible.
Entry Requirements
Each programme is designed to meet the needs of students in anyorganisation who want to upgrade their operations skills and progress their qualifications to degree level. To qualify for direct entry we request the completion of a Senior Management Development Programme at USB:ED within the last 5 years, and on-going employment in a relevant field to the course subject area in order to qualify.
Fees
The current fees are 4,050 for the full two year programme.
Application Deadlines and Programme Start Dates
AACSB Business Education Alliance Member
Lincoln International Business School is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association, connecting educators, students, and business to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.


BSc (Hons) Engineering Management | SBS-ED | University of LincolnBSc (Hons) Engineering Management
Enquire Today
Email:wbdladmin@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
This work-based distance learning (WBDL) programme is designed to provide those working within the technical environment, and commonly already holding technical qualifications, the management skills to effectively and efficiently manage their work areas.
Engineering Management has parallels with Industrial and Systems Engineering which is concerned with the design, improvement and installation of integrated systems of people, materials, information, equipment and energy. The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skill in the mathematical, physical, and social sciences together with the principles and methods of engineering analysis and design, to specify, predict, and evaluate the results to be obtained from such systems (IISE, 2017).
Our BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree is a work-based distance learning programme which offers you the opportunity to gain a recognised university qualification whilst remaining in employment.
This work-based distance learning (WBDL) programme is designed to provide those working within the technical environment, and commonly already holding technical qualifications, the management skills to effectively and efficiently manage their work areas.
Engineering Management has parallels with Industrial and Systems Engineering which is concerned with the design, improvement and installation of integrated systems of people, materials, information, equipment and energy. The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skill in the mathematical, physical, and social sciences together with the principles and methods of engineering analysis and design, to specify, predict, and evaluate the results to be obtained from such systems (IISE, 2017).
The programme offers the following key features:
The BSc (Hons) Engineering Management degree has been designed to allow students who have completed a Higher National Diploma (HND) in an Engineering subject or equivalent to undertake the programme. It presents a distance-learning framework designed to enable students to complete the programme within a two year period. The duration will reflect each individuals personal circumstances, accredited experience, prior learning and work commitments.
How You Study
This flexible-learning programme can be tailored to individual needs and circumstances and provides an academically rigorous learning environment within which students have the opportunity to extend skills, expertise, knowledge, vision and personal/career development by:
The programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating the development of knowledge, skills and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness.
This programme is designed to be flexible and dynamic enough to reflect and absorb change and facilitate the students acquisition of a range of skills and knowledge that may be needed to rise to the challenges of the contemporary workplace.
The programme presents a distance learning framework to enable individuals to complete the programme within a two year period - the duration reflects personal circumstances, accredited experience, prior learning and work commitments.
Modules
Critical Enquiry Skills
Module Synopsis
This module aims to equip students with appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their Level 3 studies, and the Independent Research Project in particular. Students will have been introduced to the nature of academic research and writing through the precursor modules at Levels 1 and 2.This module builds on existing student understanding of enquiry methods and academic writing in order to enhance competency in argumentation and capability in research design. Students are introduced to core skills of literature review: critical thinking, organisation, reflection and evaluation. Literature reviews serve a variety of purposes but are often the starting point in the arguments of discovery and advocacy associated with enquiry and investigation. The RAE (2008) definition of research can be used as a starting point : Research is to be understood as original investigation undertaken in order to gain knowledge and understanding. The Student As Producer definition (User Guide, 2010-2011, 6) directs that progressively What matters is that in certain research-engaged teaching and learning situations is less the originality of the research outcome than the manner in which it is acquired.In the context of WBDL it is important to recognise the value of multi-modal texts and settings, both as integral to the research environment and sources of valid information. Moreover, students will build a critical understanding of different research designs in order to evaluate existing knowledge as well as inform their own investigations.Enquiry is presented as a messy rather than prescriptive process involving a series of choices and dilemmas, including those associated with ethics and responsible management. Whilst students are introduced to the range of research designs, the module places particular emphasis on those relevant to work based research enquiry: case study, mixed method, action research and systematic review. Progressively, in line with Student As Producer principles and practices of discovery, evaluation and uncertainty, the new student will gain a legitimate contribution to the research process in Higher Education, and an authentic experience.
Assessment
The assessment comprises a portfolio of work which may include: a short written evaluation of relevant published academic research; annotated bibliographic work; problem identification tasks and outline research designs; resolution of ethical dilemmas.The portfolio will be the equivalent of 3000 words (+/- 10%)
Engineering Systems Design
Module Synopsis
This module introduces students to system design concepts and tools, and challenges students to think critically about their potential and actual application in Engineering. Students are introduced to the engineering of systems design from an operations perspective, which will focus on two functions in particular, directing operations and designing operations.
Engineering Systems Management
Module Synopsis
This module aims to introduce students to issues of managing systems in Engineering. This consideration takes a systems approach and challenges students to identify and consider their operations and services as (interacting) systems and to look at the tools available to organise and manage such systems. It uses some of the approaches of Management Sciences (e.g. Operational Research and Management, Industrial engineering, business statistics and project management) and requires students to identify how these relate to their own Engineering experiences or expectations.
Elective
The elective module affords students the opportunity to tailor their programme to their interests and choose a specific management function to study as their penultimate module, with elective modules exploring areas of personal and professional development, occupational health, managing project, strategy and supply chain. All electives include an assessment of a 3000 word portfolio. The following elective modules are available:
Independent Research Project
The dissertation is the capstone project of the programme. It provides students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project should be a real-world issue or a research topic.
Whilst it is intended that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of our programmes, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with the supervisor, dissertation coordinator and programme leader.
How You Are Assessed
The programme centres around work-based learning, which is not just the development of knowledge and a set of technical skills, but reflection and learning from experience. Application to context and evidence of application is central to the learning process as learning is seen as arising from action and problem solving within a work environment, centred around live projects and challenges to individuals and organisations.
An assignment brief will explain the intended learning outcomes and requirements relating to each assessment. The work-based focus of any project or assignment will involve negotiation and agreement between the student and the module tutor.
What We Look For In Your Application
Work-based Distance Learning students need to be in employment and have some management responsibilities, this can be management of people or resources. You will need to have completed a Senior Management Development Programme at USB:ED within the last 5 years in order to be eligible.
Entry Requirements
Each programme is designed to meet the needs of students in anyorganisation who want to upgrade their operations skills and progress their qualifications to degree level. To qualify for direct entry we request the completion of a Senior Management Development Programme at USB:ED within the last 5 years, and on-going employment in a relevant field to the course subject area in order to qualify.
Fees
The current fees are 4,050 for the full two year programme.
Application Deadlines and Programme Start Dates
AACSB Business Education Alliance Member
Lincoln International Business School is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association, connecting educators, students, and business to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.


About Distance Learning | SBS-ED | University of LincolnAbout Distance Learning
s job, our work based distance learningtop-up degree programmesare designed to give students and employers a competitive edge.", 'Building on your existing expertise, each programme allows you to attain a degree qualification through the completion of a range of work-based management activities. These flexible, work-based programmes are taught via distance learning and, depending on your individual circumstances and experience,are usually completed in up to two years.
Our work based distance learning top-up degree programmes are designed to give students and employers a competitive edge.
Course Benefits
Convenient Start Times
You can choose to join the programmes at three points throughout the year: March, May, and October, ensuring you can get the qualification underway when it's most convenient for you.
How You Study
As a distance learner you will undertake independent study, guided by expert tutors who will help you prepare for and follow up on topics in greater depth.
Each of our Work Based Distance Learning programmes is divided into five or six modules, which are accessed via our online virtual learning environment, Blackboard. You will work through each module in turn, at a pace that you set, until you complete your degree programme. Your final grade will reflect your performance on each module, including a dissertation on a subject of your choosing.
Module assignments take the form of essays, portfolios, reflective logs and reports, with each being assessed by your Module Tutor against the learning outcomes of the module you are undertaking.
There is a Blackboard site specific to each module that includes your Study Guide, a Module Guide and the Harvard Referencing Guide as well as other resources. Course reading materials are available in electronic formats compatible with most devices from our vast digital library collection.
We understand that life can get in the way, which is why our programmes have built-in flexibility. If you need to pause your studies at any point, or need an extension on an assignment, we can usually accommodate.

How You Are Assessed
With no final exam, assessment is continuous throughout your course of study.
Each programme has specific learning outcomes, which you will find in your module and course documentation. You will need to familiarise yourself with these outcomes to understand what you are expected to know and do to achieve academic success.
You will be sent more detailed information about assessment in your Welcome Pack.

How You Are Supported
Should you have any questions about course content, reading materials or how to approach your study, your dedicated Module Tutors will be able to help. In addition, you can establish informal peer-learning groups with your fellow students on social media or via Blackboards online forums.
Students who make regular contact with their Programme Leader and Module Tutors and submit drafts of their assignments in a timely fashion usually achieve higher grades and have a better learner experience. As a distance learning student undertaking individual study, it is your responsibility to ensure you know what the course requirements are and when your assignments are due.
We suggest updating your tutor on your progress once a fortnight, being sure to flag any issues at an early stage. Should your circumstances change for any reason, or if you begin to feel overwhelmed, please contact your tutor. Your tutor is there to help you.
Remember that you have encountered and successfully managed challenging situations over the course of your career. Your main challenges will be balancing study, work and life commitments, and re-engagement with academia.
Learn more about student support

How To Contact Your Tutors
Your Programme Leader and Module Tutors are friendly and approachable. They are there to support you throughout your programme of study.
Before you commence your degree, your Programme Leader will send you a welcome email with some information to get you started. This is the email address you will use to contact them once your programme is underway.
You will find your Module Tutors email addresses on the relevant module sites on Blackboard. In the first instance, tutors should be contacted by email, however most tutors are happy to talk with you via email, telephone, Skype or other technologies by prior arrangement. It is even possible to meet some of our tutors in person at the university.
For further details please contactwbdladmin@lincoln.ac.uk


Case Studies | SBS-ED | University of LincolnOur Graduates

Why did you choose to study this course?
After having successfully completed the Senior Management Development Programme (SMDP) at the University of Stellenbosch Business School in South Africa, I obtained credits towards enrolling for a BA Honours degree in Business Management from the University of Lincoln in the United Kingdom. My successful completion of the SMDP programme allowed me to be recognised for 240 credits towards my BA Honours degree in Business Management and I therefore decided to register with the University of Lincoln for the outstanding 120 credits.
Why did you choose to study with the University of Lincoln? Are you pleased you made that decision?
I consider myself to be an effective independent learner that is self-motivated, able to manage my time and personal learning process effectively according to my personal development plan. The Work Based Distance Learning approach (WBDL) used by the University of Lincoln perfectly supports my part-time learning style approach. Together with the flexibility and online / virtual infrastructure (Blackboard) that the University provides for communicating, the WBDL approach towards learning makes for a perfect recipe for a full-time employed individual like me to develop myself further and still be able to perform my daily functions as a full-time employee. When things become pressurised at work I am able to take a study break / holiday when it suits my circumstances. This type of flexibility alone is worth its weight in gold.
What are you enjoying/did you enjoy most about your chosen course?
I enjoyed the fact that all the units in the WBDL programme made provision for real time application of theory in my work environment. As I was progressing through each unit, immediate direct benefits were derived for me and my organization. I cannot even begin to start describing how much satisfaction such an experience provides. This approach is tremendously stimulating especially when it comes to solving real-time issues in the workplace.
What are/were the positive aspects of your course on you and your career?
The most positive aspects relate to the direct and immediate application of lessons learned in my place of work from the various modules that made up the course. As a result of this course I am now much better empowered and positioned to be able to assist my organisation to manage our ever changing environment more effectively.
Have any of the modules you have undertaken had particular impact on your role or your employer? If so, how?
All the modules impacted me and my employer positively. The one aspect that requires highlighting is my learning regarding the study of reflection. Before my study of reflection, I was using the term relatively loose to describe how I perceive/experience a situation. After my learning of what reflection really is, I was able to engage my environment in a much more structured manner with the help of reflection logs and be able to reflect and learn from any situation no matter how intense. The change management module impacted my employer positively. I was able to contribute in collaboration with our Organizational Development partner in HR towards developing a change management framework which my employer used to manage the change effectively in one of our biggest ever IT projects, called TITAN.
What advice would you give to someone else looking at this course?
Taking into account the flexibility and the high quality structured modular content, I would advise anyone, especially full- time working individuals, to seriously consider including a course like this in their personal development plan. There are similar courses available but when it comes to quality, integrity and international recognition, it is extremely challenging to find a better match. Potential international students can now obtain a credible internationally recognized business degree qualification that wont cost them an arm and a leg. Now that is truly exciting!
Do you have any further comments about the course or the University?
Tutor contact is very professional and timeous. Tutors engage and respond timeously ensuring that students are always making progress. The monitoring efforts of the progress panel are very effective. The online platform referred to as the Blackboard is a very effective medium for the distance learning students, it provides as sense of being on virtual campus.
For further details please contactwbdladmin@lincoln.ac.uk


SBS-ED | Distance Learning | University of Lincoln
Lincoln International Business School in Partnership with Stellenbosch Business School-Executive Development
Lincoln International Business School offer a progression route on to the final year of an undergraduate degree forStellenbosch Business Schoolalumni who have completed the Senior Management Development Programme (SMDP).Stellenbosch Business School-Executive Development alumni have the opportunity to enrol onto the following courses from the University of Lincoln in the UK.
About Distance Learning
s job, our work based distance learning top-up", 'Find out more
Our Graduates
Hear from graduates about their studies and how qualifications have helped further their careers
View case studies
Watch Our Information Event
Hear from our dedicated academic and admin teams, and a current student to find out more about Work-Based Distance Learning
Watch here
Our Programmes
Our degrees are work-based and undertaken through distance learning, which enables you to work whilst attaining your qualification.
BA (Hons) Business Management
This programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, potentially increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability.
Find out more
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
This programme The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skill in the mathematical, physical, and social sciences together with the principles and methods of engineering analysis and design, to specify, predict, and evaluate the results to be obtained from such systems (IISE, 2017).
Find out more
BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management (Open)
This programme seeks to develop students professional competence and enable them to enhance and embellish specific knowledge, skills and abilities relating to their chosen speciality, and is informed by the latest CIPD intermediate level professional standards.
Find out more
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management
This programme aims develop of a broad range of logistics management knowledge and skills such as leading people, budgeting, managing the organisation and managing systems. The programme offers elective modules to allow students to choose their own learning journey.
Find out more
Contact us
For further details please contactwbdladmin@lincoln.ac.uk


Andrew Bremner | Case Studies | University of LincolnAndrew Bremner


Andrew Bremner is the Chief Technology Officer at B-Logic, an IT Management service provider that focuses on providing enterprise-class IT Outsource Services to the mid-corporate market. B-Logic operates from Cape Town, South Africa and delivers services to local, national and international clients. He completed the Senior Management Development programme (SMDP) at USB-ED and the BA (Hons) in Business Management from the University of Lincoln in the UK.
Why did you choose to enrol for the Senior Management Development programme (SMDP)?
I chose to enrol in the SMDP at a time when I was looking to broaden my business knowledge and to establish a strong management and leadership foundation. The SMDP enticed me, as the course programme was associated with a highly reputable organisation with high standards and excellent tutors. I needed to ensure that by doing this course, I was not wasting time and that I would grow in my thinking as a result.
Why did you choose the Lincoln qualification? (were you aware of this option and had a long term strategy?)
I was not aware of the Lincoln qualification when choosing the SMDP. Had I known prior, it would only have cemented my decision to participate in the SMDP and then jump into the Lincoln degree after. The offer was too good to refuse, and in hindsight has certainly paid for itself. The Lincoln qualification was a way of fast tracking my degree, whilst also associating myself with another reputable learning institution. The online learning process was flexible and easy to use. The study material was also very accessible, comprehensive. The most attractive aspect of the course was the work-based learning approach, using my own organisation and circumstances to apply theory to practical situations. Not only did I benefit from this applied learning, but also my organisation as I applied the theory to my own circumstances in the workplace.
What were your expectations of the SMDP and the online qualification once you completed our SMDP?
Although you could say my personal "brand" benefitted from the certifications, it was always my intention to build a strong theoretical base upon which to grow my own managerial style and equip myself with an arsenal of managerial tools and models. I needed the theory to underpin my decision-making, and therefore to allow me to manage with confidence.
Did the SMDP meet your expectations?
The SMDP did more than meet my expectations. The course inspired me; it helped me to breakdown certain mental barriers in my thinking and gave me new perspective. It raised my game to new levels and gave me confidence in my approach.
Did Lincoln meet your expectations?
Initially I was nervous going into the Lincoln programme. I did not consider myself an "academic", so research and critical thinking worried me. However, I was pleasantly surprised how well the system worked - I had a direct line to my tutor, who was very attentive and supportive. The course prepared me effectively for all the various types of learning requirements, research and writing styles, it ensured I was well prepared for a higher learning degree. This course exceeded my expectations; I recommend it often to various friends and colleagues.
What are some of the key learnings you experienced?
There are a number of highlights, difficult to name them all. But to highlight a few: The ability to think critically; the ability to research and write academic papers; a comprehensive overview of business operations and strategic decision making; various ways of improving operational effectiveness; building more effective teams; a deeper understanding of change in terms of complexity and its potential impact to systems and environments. Complex problem solving These are certainly not all, but some of my more enjoyable learnings.
Why would you recommend this to others?
Both organisations have excellent reputations, and for good reason. The lecturers/tutors are of a very high standard. Secondly, the work-based learning approach is beneficial to both learner and organisation.
Where to from here? What are the next steps in your career?
The learnings from the courses have allowed me to merge business thinking, strategy and my technical background in Information Technology. I have since been fulfilling a CTO/CIO role, both internally in my current organisation, as well as to clients as an outsourced service. I have incorporated my learnings into our product offering, which I believe has resulted in us providing a unique spin in the market compared to our competitors. I am aiming for the Managing Director role in our business in future. As part of my preparation, I intend to build on my financial management learnings by continuing with a few finance-based short courses are a number of highlights, difficult to name them all. But to highlight a few: The ability to think critically; the ability to research and write academic papers; a comprehensive overview of business operations and strategic
Are you considering a career change?
In the short term, I am working hard and hoping to double (or even triple) the size of our current business before looking at other options. However, circumstances may change.learnings from the courses have allowed me to merge business thinking, strategy and my technical background in Information Technology.
For further details please contactwbdladmin@lincoln.ac.uk


BA (Hons) Business Management | SBS-ED | University of LincolnBA (Hons) Business Management
Enquire Today
Email:wbdladmin@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
The BA (Hons) Business Management degree is a Work Based Distance Learning (WBDL) programme which offers the opportunity to gain a recognised University qualification whilst remaining in employment. BA (Hons) Business Management degree is dual accredited with Chartered Manager status from the Chartered Management Institute (CMI). This means students will automatically receive a second professional qualification upon successful completion of their programme.
BA (Hons) Business Management programme offers students the opportunity to advance their career through engaging in personal and professional development, potentially increasing management competence and enhancing overall employability. The aims of the degree programme are to enable students to:
Modules
Critical Enquiry Skills
Module Synopsis
This module aims to equip students with appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their Level 3 studies, and the Independent Research Project in particular. Students will have been introduced to the nature of academic research and writing through the precursor modules at Levels 1 and 2.This module builds on existing student understanding of enquiry methods and academic writing in order to enhance competency in argumentation and capability in research design. Students are introduced to core skills of literature review: critical thinking, organisation, reflection and evaluation. Literature reviews serve a variety of purposes but are often the starting point in the arguments of discovery and advocacy associated with enquiry and investigation. The RAE (2008) definition of research can be used as a starting point : Research is to be understood as original investigation undertaken in order to gain knowledge and understanding. The Student As Producer definition (User Guide, 2010-2011, 6) directs that progressively What matters is that in certain research-engaged teaching and learning situations is less the originality of the research outcome than the manner in which it is acquired.In the context of WBDL it is important to recognise the value of multi-modal texts and settings, both as integral to the research environment and sources of valid information. Moreover, students will build a critical understanding of different research designs in order to evaluate existing knowledge as well as inform their own investigations.Enquiry is presented as a messy rather than prescriptive process involving a series of choices and dilemmas, including those associated with ethics and responsible management. Whilst students are introduced to the range of research designs, the module places particular emphasis on those relevant to work based research enquiry: case study, mixed method, action research and systematic review. Progressively, in line with Student As Producer principles and practices of discovery, evaluation and uncertainty, the new student will gain a legitimate contribution to the research process in Higher Education, and an authentic experience.
Assessment
The assessment comprises a portfolio of work which may include: a short written evaluation of relevant published academic research; annotated bibliographic work; problem identification tasks and outline research designs; resolution of ethical dilemmas.The portfolio will be the equivalent of 3000 words (+/- 10%)
Integrating Leadership and Management Experience
Module Synopsis
This module is designed to develop and assess the students ability to reflect critically on leadership and management professional practice and experiences. The expectation is that academic theory and literature will be critically reviewed and applied to the professional experience and organisational context to allow for personal development planning.Reflection as a technique for aiding and reinforcing learning is a powerful tool in professional development and a wide range of other learning situations and environments. Reflective practice is essentially about learning and developing through examining own perceptions of what happened and considering how the event may be perceived by others. At an organisational level, critical reflection is the basis for maintaining the appropriate alignment of an organisation with its environment and as such, forms the basis for strategic planning and organisational change. It can, if used correctly, act as a catalyst for continual development in the essential management disciplines of: people, resource, performance, conflict, and change, in a rapidly changing leadership and managerial environment.There are many different approaches to reflection. This module will utilise the format of a structured Reflective Learning Log as a useful tool for reflective practice. A Reflective Learning Log is more than a simple diary of events: it is intended to chart progress, thinking and development, and knowledge construction. The thought and discipline associated with the writing and production of the Reflective Learning Log, supports the overall aim of learning through reflection
Assessment
s leadership and management professional practice and provide opportunity for development of a professional development plan. The main body of the report will be based on management themes arising from the 2000 word Reflective Learning Log. The submission should demonstrate the student's ability to understand, analyse and apply academic theory and thinking to a practical leadership and managerial environment, evidenced by appropriate academic rigour.", 'Digital Communications in a Business Environment
Module Synopsis
The landscape of business communication has evolved due to emerging technology and changing business operations. Business practitioners and decision makers need to acknowledge the radically changing relationship of customers and stakeholders with digital technology and consider how this may impact upon their expectations and experiences of business communication. To help businesses remain competitive and further develop, it is important to understand what digital communication tools are available and to analyse the digital communications activities businesses engage with. To have an effective digital communication strategy also requires critical evaluation, both at operational and strategic level, on how connectivity using digital communication can impact on decision-making and business growth. This module aims to introduce students to the concept of digital communication and its components, and provoke the thought process of digital communication to enable the effectiveness and sustainability of businesses. Drawing upon a variety of concepts and propositions on digital communication in business contexts, students will focus on the structure of the digital communication set-up within their own organisation and will have the opportunity to acquire knowledge, experiences and skills on using digital communication to exchange information, to facilitate effective management. Through the robust learning and application of concepts underpinning digital communication, students will have the opportunity to gain a better understanding of the relevance of digital communication in the scaling of the activities of organisations in order to attain set organisational goals.
Assessment
The assessment comprises a digital portfolio which will contain theory and practice, with evidence of reflection. Learning artefacts within the portfolio could include: an individual presentation supported by visual aids/digital story-telling, reflective learning accounts, online discussion (such as a blog), academic essay. The portfolio will be the equivalent of 3000 words (+/- 10%) and will be focused on application within the student's organisation (or an organisation of the student's choice).
Finance for the Non-finance Manager
Module Synopsis
Management of finance is a core element of business activity, thus, this module aims to apply academic theory and thinking to the students own organisation and linking finance to other functions within the organisation. Regardless of professional background or discipline, all managers become accountable for using corporate resources and senior managers expect a level of financial skill and knowledge to be applied. Students will be studying financial and management accounting as they need to understand the financial needs of external stakeholders to satisfy regulatory bodies, as well as the use of management accounting to manage the internal business. A manager should understand and have knowledge of the use of financial information and management of finance to make informed judgments and decisions, and understand the consequences of management decisions.
Assessment
The assessment of this module is a portfolio. The portfolio of 3000 words will typically include two elements: a 1500 word (+/- 10%) Report, and a 1500 word (+/- 10%) Business Case. The portfolio will be expected to have academic underpinning and critical review of financial information within the students own organisation (or an organisation that the student is familiar with, of their own choice). The assessment will cover topics covered on the syllabus and learning programme.
Elective
The elective module affords students the opportunity to tailor their programme to their interests and choose a specific management function to study as their penultimate module, with elective modules exploring areas of personal and professional development, occupational health, managing project, strategy and supply chain. All electives include an assessment of a 3000 word portfolio. The following elective modules are available:
Independent Research Project
The dissertation is the capstone project of the programme. It provides the student the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The student will have the opportunity to demonstrate their capacity to work independently on a major project, the nature of should be negotiated with their Programme Leader and Dissertation Coordinator. However, the focus of this project should be a real-world issue or a research topic, executed in a manner consistent with the core philosophy and values of Lincoln International Business School (LIBS). Moreover, the student will work under supervision of an academic tutor to research, develop and present their study for assessment following an agreed format. Whilst it is envisaged that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of a LIBS programme, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with the supervisor, Dissertation Coordinator and Programme Leader.
Assessment
A Learning Plan will be agreed between students and tutors, which will ensure mutuality of intent, process, practice and format of assessment.
The module will be assessed by:
What We Look For In Your Application
Work-based Distance Learning students need to be in employment and have some management responsibilities, this can be management of people or resources. You will need to have completed a Senior Management Development Programme at USB:ED within the last 5 years in order to be eligible.
Fees
The current fees are 4,050 for the full two year programme.
Entry Requirements
Each programme is designed to meet the needs of students in any business who want to upgrade their operations skills and progress their qualifications to degree level. To qualify for direct entry we request the completion of a Senior Management Development Programme at USB:ED within the last 5 years, and on-going employment in a relevant field to the course subject area in order to qualify.
Application Deadlines and Programme Start Dates
AACSB Business Education Alliance Member
Lincoln International Business School is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association, connecting educators, students, and business to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.


BA (Hons) Business Management  | Military Programmes | University of LincolnKey Information
Part-time Duration:18-24 Months
School:Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus [L]
Validation Status:Validated
Enquire Today
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
Introduction
The effectiveness of any military force depends on its people. In todays constantly changing environment, business management sits at the heart of a complex array of organisational and operational changes that are taking place across the Armed Forces. Such changes mean that military personnel must be equipped with the knowledge and skills necessary to allow them to contribute directly to organisational efficiency and operational effectiveness. The University of Lincoln recognises that this requirement calls for a high level of managerial and professional competence. The BA (Hons) Business Management degree is designed to build on military professionals skills, linking practical experience with academic theory to provide the opportunity to enhance knowledge and expertise in Business Management.
Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area deployments or other such commitments. In effect students can pause their studies until they are in a position to continue.
How You Study
A range of teaching and learning methods are used on the BA (Hons) Business Management central to this is Blackboard which is an online teaching and learning resource. Teaching on the course is through a range of methods such as online sessions, directed reading and videos with an aim to facilitate a community of practice learners.
How You Are Assessed
The course and associated assessments are at final year degree level and, applicants should be prepared to offer the commitment and dedication to produce work of an appropriate standard. Throughout the programme assessment methods are designed to enable you to develop your potential. The course enables you to consider the application of general theory to your specific working environment and assessment strategies can include reflection, essays, reports, portfolios and a short video. Exams and group work are not utilised.
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  no later than 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course will vary for each module. It could include coursework, such as a dissertation or essay, written and practical exams, portfolio development, group work or presentations.
Duration
s personal circumstances and work commitments", 'Modules
This module aims to equip students with the appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their studies, the Independent Research Project in particular. The module assessment is a portfolio of 3000 words, example contents could include an evaluation of published research, problem identification tasks, and the outline of a research design or the resolution of an ethical dilemma.
Integrating Leadership and Management Experience This module is designed to develop and assess students ability to reflect critically on leadership and management professional practice and experience. Academic theory and literature can be critically reviewed and applied to professional experience and an organisational context to allow for personal development planning. Discussion areas within the context of leadership and management and the students own professional experience and organisation may typically comprise:


The module assessment comprises of a 4000-word report and 2000-word reflective learning log.
This module aims to introduce students to the concept of digital communication and its components, and provoke the thought process of digital communication to enable the effectiveness and sustainability of businesses. Drawing upon a variety of conceptualisations and propositions on digital communication in business contexts, students can focus on the structure of the digital communication set-up within their own organisation and have the opportunity to acquire knowledge, experiences and skills on using digital communication to exchange information, to facilitate effective management. The module will typically cover internal and external communication, digital capability and engagement, communication and information management, strategy and implementation, decision-making and business growth.
Students can undertake module assessment which consists of a digital portfolio of 3000 words, example contents could include an individual presentation supported by visual aids, reflective learning accounts, online discussions and an academic essay
Finance for the Non-Finance Manager Management is a core element of business activity, and this module aims to apply academic theory and thinking to the students own organisation and link finance to other functions within the organisation. Regardless of professional background or discipline, all managers become accountable for using corporate resources and senior managers expect a level of financial skill and knowledge to be applied. Students can study financial and management accounting as they need to understand the financial needs of external stakeholders to satisfy regulatory bodies, as well as the use of management accounting to manage the internal business.
The module is structured around discussion areas covering financial communications, financial management and managing finance typically comprising of financial communications, financial analysis and interpretation, costing and budgeting analysis, investment appraisal, risk management and corporate social responsibility.
The module assessment can include a portfolio of 3000 words, example contents typically are two elements a 1500 word report and a 1500 word business case.
Venture Creation
This module is designed to enable students to use entrepreneurial skills they have gained through the study of both theory and practice and to pursue careers in a range of industries. It encourages the application of free thinking to contemporary situations and the application of a conceptual environment to a number of business situations. The module examines modern day success stories of contemporary businesses and traces their origins and reasons for successful accomplishments. It aims to reflect the entrepreneurial learning process which informs how entrepreneurs learn from previous mistakes. The module assessment is a 4000-word business plan.
Managing Projects
In this module students have the opportunity to develop a solid foundation in the theory and best practice of project management, and can develop the practical skills of how to plan, implement and control projects. The module aims to provide students with an understanding of the system perspective on management and a practically-oriented introduction to the nature, purpose and standards of project management and its key functional objectives (scope, time, cost, quality, risk and flexibility). The role and qualities of the project manager and the composition of the team are also evaluated. Students can undertake a 3000-word report module assessment, recommending ways in which performance objectives could be achieved to cope with future requirements and challenges within the students organisation.
Logistics and Supply Chain Management
This module aims to introduce students to the key concept of managing a logistics and supply chain, and to build a framework within which they can critically analyse the performance of these functions.
Practice logistics and supply chain management is about the way in which organisations deliver outputs in support of the organisations intended objectives. Students can undertake a 3000-word briefing module assessment with regard to the operational efficiency of the SCM/Logistics function, with recommendation on how to improve upon the current performance.
Coaching and Mentoring
This module aims to introduce students to coaching and mentoring as an approach to organisational performance improvement. Coaching can be understood as facilitating someone to reach their own potential to maximise their own performance, helping them learn rather than telling them. Whereas mentoring is the sharing of knowledge from an experienced colleague with a colleague less experienced in a relationship of mutual trust. This module assessment is a 3000-word portfolio, example contents are typically a 1500-word report and a 1500-word reflection.

The final module aims to provide students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project can be a real-world issue or a research topic. Whilst it is intended that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of our programmes, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with their supervisor, dissertation coordinator and programme leader. The module assessment includes an initial project plan weighted at ten percent and a project submission as agreed with your supervisor of 10,000 words, which includes a 1000-word reflective piece which can facilitate your achievement of Chartered Manager status.
Benefits for Students
Students may benefit from the following features of the course:
Benefits for the MoD
The MOD may benefit from the following features of the course:
Dual Accreditation
Chartered Management Institute (CMI)
Chartered Manager
This award:
Entry Requirements
This is a final level top-up degree course, Level four and five are accredited through previous academic qualifications and/or relevant experience. The University has recognised the high standard of training received by military personnel therefore as entry we accept:
Fees
The current course fee is for the whole programme based on completion within two years following initial enrolment. This fee can be paid in two instalments.
*Subject to annual review of fees.
**Current or previous serving members of the UK Military are eligible for a fees bursary, this bursary is reflected in the price above. In order to qualify for this you must provide a Statement of Service/Military ID or any other formal evidence of your service with your application pack. If your application is successful we will provide details of the bursary enclosed in your offer letter. Our ELCAS provider number is 1283.

Contact Details for Further Enquiries:
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk

Additional Costs:
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Your Future Career
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. The course is designed can enable students to extend their skills, knowledge and perspective and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Careers Service
The University Careers and Employability Team offer qualified advisors who can work with students to provide tailored, individual support and careers advice during their time at the University. As a member of our alumni we also offer one-to-one support in the first year after completing a course, including access to events, vacancy information and website resources; with access to online vacancies and virtual resources for the following two years.
This service can include one-to-one coaching, CV advice and interview preparation to help you maximise our graduates future opportunities.
The service works closely with local, national and international employers, acting as a gateway to the business world.
Visit our Careers Service pages for further informationhttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/campuslife/studentsupport/careersservice/.


BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace) | Military Programmes | University of LincolnKey Information
Part-time Duration:13-24 Months
School: Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus [L]
Validation Status:Validated
Enquire Today
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
Introduction
The effectiveness of any military force depends on its managers understanding of the evolving requirement to sustain, retain, attract and recruit the people it needs. Your management skills are key to transforming your people, and this course can enable you to utilise the military system to unlock their full potential and achieve your own.
The University recognises that this requirement calls for a high level of managerial and professional competence. The BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management) presents Royal Air Force Engineering Officers who have completed EOFT with an opportunity to enhance their managerial and academic skills within this particular area of operational expertise. The programme is open to all suitably qualified candidates and offers an opportunity to transfer their academic qualifications and work experience to achieve a degree in Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management.
Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area deployments or other such commitments. In effect students can pause on their studies until they are in a position to continue.
How You Study
Students have up to ten hours contact time with their tutors with the remainder being self-directed study. A range of teaching and learning methods are used on the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management) including using Blackboard which is an online teaching and learning resource. Teaching on the course is through a range of methods such as podcasts, Wikis and blogs with the aim to facilitate a community of practice learners. Blackboard is also used for assessment purposes and students study and are assessed completely online.
How You Are Assessed
The course and associated assessments are at final year degree level and, applicants should be prepared to offer the commitment and dedication to produce work of an appropriate standard.Throughout the programme assessment methods are designed to enable you to develop your potential and are based on the development of close working relationships between tutor and individual student. Hence, assessment strategies aim to reflect the focus of the course on independent self-managed learning.
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  no later than 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course will vary for each module. It could include coursework,such as a dissertation or essay, written, and portfolio development, or presentations.
Duration
s personal circumstances and work commitments.", 'Modules
This module aims to equip students with the appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their studies, the Independent Research Project in particular. The module assessment is a portfolio of 3000 words, example contents could include an evaluation of published research, problem identification tasks, and the outline of a research design or the resolution of an ethical dilemma.
This module aims to introduce students to system design concepts and tools, and challenges students to think critically about their potential and actual application in engineering. Students are introduced to the engineering of systems design from an operations perspective, which is designed to focus on directing operations and designing operations. Students can undertake a module assessment is a 3000-word portfolio, example contents could include a review of your organisation or a plan to implement a chosen design model.
This module aims to introduce students to issues surrounding the management of systems in engineering. This takes a systems approach and challenges students to identify and consider their operations and services as (interacting) systems, and to look at the tools available to organise and manage such systems. It uses some of the approaches of management sciences (e.g. operational research and management, industrial engineering, business statistics and project management) and requires students to identify how these relate to their own engineering experiences or expectations. Students can undertake a 3000-word portfolio module assessment, example contents could include reports, a system proposal and reflective learning account.
The final module aims to provide students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project can be a real-world issue or a research topic. Whilst it is intended that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of our programmes, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with their supervisor, dissertation coordinator and programme leader. The module assessment includes an initial project plan weighted at ten percent and a project submission as agreed with your supervisor of 10,000 words, which includes a 1000-word reflective piece which can facilitate your achievement of Chartered Manager status.
Benefits for Students
Students may benefit from the following features of the course:
Benefits for the MoD
The MOD may benefit from the following features of the course:
Dual Accreditation
Chartered Management Institute (CMI)
Chartered Manager
This award recognises:
Entry Requirements
The University of Lincoln has recognised the high standard of phase one and two training received by Royal Air Force Aerosystems Engineer Officers through formal accreditation of the first two levels of study of a undergraduate degree programme, in addition through an agreement with the Defence School of Aeronautical Engineering (DSAE) the accreditation of additional final-level modules. This allows EOFT (AS) students who are undertaking their military training the option to enrol on the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management). Two modules will be completed within your EOFT training and you will receive a 45 credit transcript for these modules on successful completion.
Within five years of completion students can then return to the University of Lincoln to successfully complete a further four final-level modules in order to be awarded the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management). Students can complete the Critical Enquiry Skills, Engineering Systems Design, Engineering Systems Management and Independent Research Project modules as described under the modules tab.
Individuals who have not enrolled within four weeks of starting their phase two training will not be eligible for this programme.

Fees
**The price reflects that current or previous serving members of the UK Military are eligible for a Military fees scholarship. In order to qualify for this, you must provide a Statement of Service/Military ID or any other formal evidence of your service with your application pack. The scholarship will be offset at Enrolment, against the tuition fee payments for each academic year of study. Our ELCAS provider number is 1283.
Contact Details for Further Enquiries:
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk

Additional Costs:
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Your Future Career
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. The course is designed can enable students to extend their skills, knowledge and perspective and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Careers Service
The University Careers and Employability Team offer qualified advisors who can work with students to provide tailored, individual support and careers advice during their time at the University. As a member of our alumni we also offer one-to-one support in the first year after completing a course, including access to events, vacancy information and website resources; with access to online vacancies and virtual resources for the following two years.
This service can include one-to-one coaching, CV advice and interview preparation to help you maximise our graduates future opportunities.
The service works closely with local, national and international employers, acting as a gateway to the business world.
Visit our Careers Service pages for further informationhttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/campuslife/studentsupport/careersservice/.


BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management (Military)  | Military Programmes | University of LincolnKey Information
Part-time Duration:13-24 Months
School: Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus [L]
Validation Status:Validated
Enquire Today
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now (Open Route) | Apply Now (Closed Route)
Introduction
The effectiveness of any military force depends on its people. In todays constantly changing environment Human Resource Management sits at the heart of the complex array of organisational and operational changes that are taking place across the Armed Forces. This means that military HR professionals must be equipped with the knowledge and skills necessary to allow them to contribute directly to organisational efficiency and operational effectiveness. The University of Lincoln recognises that this requirement calls for a high level of managerial and professional competence. The BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management, a final year top up course, is designed to build on HR military professionals skills, linking practical experience with academic theory to provide them with the opportunity to enhance their knowledge and expertise in Human Resource Management. The first and second years of the degree are accredited through previous academic qualifications and/or relevant professional experience.
Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations do permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area or other such commitments. In effect students can pausetheir studies until they are in a position to continue.
How You Study
Students have up to ten hours contact time with their tutors with the remainder being self-directed study. A range of teaching and learning methods are used on the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management) including using Blackboard which is an online teaching and learning resource. Teaching on the course is through a range of methods such as podcasts, Wikis and blogs with the aim to facilitate a community of practice learners. Blackboard is also used for assessment purposes and students study and are assessed completely online.
How You Are Assessed
The course and associated assessments are at final year degree level and, applicants should be prepared to offer the commitment and dedication to produce work of an appropriate standard.Throughout the programme assessment methods are designed to enable you to develop your potential. The course enables you to consider the application of general theory to your specific working environment and assessment strategies can include reflection, essays, reports, portfolios and a short video. Exams and group work are not utilised.
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  no later than 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course will vary for each module. It could include coursework,such as a dissertation or essay, written, and portfolio development, or presentations.
Duration
s personal circumstances and work commitments.", 'Modules
This module aims to equip students with appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their studies, the Independent Research Project in particular.
The aim of this module is to enable students to develop their workplace skills in the management of change. Students start by considering their organisations business and market position, its structures and how it operates, to develop an understanding of the context within which change happens. They will explore theoretical models and the skills required by effective change agents and organisations.
As well as developing critical intellectual capabilities, the module is designed to target the key areas of human resource practice and procedure in which the demonstration of core skills is vital. It aims to support the Chartered Institute Personnel and Development (CIPD) concept of the Thinking Performer - a practitioner who is knowledgeable and competent, forward thinking, and adds value through continuous challenge and self-imposed improvement goals - and seeks to consciously develop these reflexive skills.
The Module introduces students to the study of the disciplines associated with Royal Navy Financial and Human Resource Departmental Management and how it is defined in relation to a military operational environment. Students focus on the development and principles of management and the roles of financial and business managers. The application and importance of management issues within organisations are also considered.
The module introduces the student to the daily management principles and responsibilities required by an AGC HR officer in the execution of their duties on a busy UK or overseas military base. Focusing on the management and coordination of the HR Function, the module aims to enable the student to understand and critically analyse how the HR function contributes to organisational efficiency and effectiveness within the business context presented by the British Army and wider UK military.
Across the full spectrum of military operations, in all conditions and in any environment, the RAF HR Officer will be expected to coordinate and control the HR function in support of the efficient fulfilment and provision of organisational need and performance. Students can develop the analytical skills necessary to aid HR related decision-making, and feasible HR service delivery strategy and plan.
Human Resource professionals within the Royal Navy need to understand the key issues affecting the function within the organisational context including the diversity and breadth of knowledge expected of a junior Royal Navy Human Resource Officer and what will be required of them in the first stages of their career. This module provides students with the opportunity to combine their learning in a practical environment demonstrating an understanding of the breadth of factors that underpin the Human Resource function within the maritime and wider organisational and practical environments.
The AGC HR Officer is expected to deliver the HR Function and to contribute to organisational effectiveness and performance in all circumstances and conditions be they combat, combat support and/or combat service support arms.
 This module aims to develop the analytical skills necessary to aid decision making in an HR context, enabling the student to develop the knowledge and skills required to produce a coherent, tested and viable HR service delivery strategy and plan.
The module will enable the student to understand and critically analyse how the HR function contributes to organisational efficiency and effectiveness within the business context presented by the RAF and wider UK military. Through effective employee engagement and the development, coaching and mentoring of military staff, students can gain an understanding and demonstrate a critical appreciation of the moral, physical and conceptual components of the RAF HR Officer in relation to HR service delivery and the generation of military operational capability whilst improving overall operational performance.
The dissertation is the capstone project of the programme. It provides students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project should be a real-world issue or a research topic.
Benefits for Students
Students may benefit from the following features of the course:
Benefits for the MoD
The MOD may benefit from the following features of the course:
Accreditation
This programme has been accredited by the CIPD against the level 5 Certificate in HRM, entitling students to Student Membership of the CIPD during their studies and to apply for Associate Membership of the CIPD on graduation.
Entry Requirements
This is a final year top-up degree course with levels four and five being accredited through previous military experience.
Personnel Support (AGC), Branch (RAF) and Logistics (RN) Officers
Programme code: HRMMILUB
The University of Lincoln has recognised the high standard of phase one and two training received by Personnel Branch/Support (Army/RAF) and Logistics (RN) officers through formal accreditation of the first two levels of study of the undergraduate degree programme. In addition, through an agreement with the Defence College of Logistics, Personnel and Administration (DCLPA), the University of Lincoln has accredited elements of professional phase 2 training against two of the modules (marked*) in the modules tab. This allows RN ILOC, AGC Det Cdrs and RAF PBOFC students the option to enrol on the BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management degree.
Within five years of completing phase one and two training students can complete a further4 final-level modules(Critical Enquiry Skills for Distance Learning, HRM and the Management of Change, Developing HR Professional Practice and Independent Research Project) with the University of Lincoln to gain the award of BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management.
Individuals who have not enrolled within four weeks of starting their phase two training will not be eligible for this programme.
Human Resource/Personnel WOs, SNCOs and by exception JNCOs
Programme code: HRMHPTUB
The University of Lincoln has recognised the high standard of phase one and two training received by Human Resource WOs and SNCOs through formal accreditation of the first two years of study of the undergraduate degree programme. This leaves WOs, SNCOs, and by exception JNCOs who can evidence a level 5 qualification obtained with five years prior to enrolment needing to complete the6 final-level modulesof the degree as described under the modules tab.

Fees

*Subject to annual review of fees.
**The price reflects that current or previous serving members of the UK Military are eligible for a Military fees scholarship. In order to qualify for this, you must provide a Statement of Service/Military ID or any other formal evidence of your service with your application pack. The scholarship will be offset at Enrolment, against the tuition fee payments for each academic year of study. Our ELCAS provider number is 1283.

Contact Details for Further Enquiries:
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk

Additional Costs:
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Your Future Career
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. The course is designed can enable students to extend their skills, knowledge and perspective and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Careers Service
The University Careers and Employability Team offer qualified advisors who can work with students to provide tailored, individual support and careers advice during their time at the University. As a member of our alumni we also offer one-to-one support in the first year after completing a course, including access to events, vacancy information and website resources; with access to online vacancies and virtual resources for the following two years.
This service can include one-to-one coaching, CV advice and interview preparation to help you maximise our graduates future opportunities.
The service works closely with local, national and international employers, acting as a gateway to the business world.
Visit our Careers Service pages for further informationhttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/campuslife/studentsupport/careersservice/.


FdSc Operations Management | Military Programmes | University of LincolnFdSc Operations Management
Key Information
Part-time Duration:18-24 Months
School: Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus [L]
Validation Status:Validated


Enquire Today
Telephone: 01522 835514 |Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
Introduction
FdSc Operations Management is a Work-Based Distance Learning (WBDL) degree which aims to bridge the gap between learning at work and learning at university. The programme considers the high level of skills and learning which are demonstrated every day in the workplace and provides a degree framework to support and accredit this learning.
The FdSc Operations Management degree is open to all suitably qualified professionals who have direct responsibility for tasks and resources. Underpinned by research and development, this degree programme provides those without formal higher education qualifications to get started with their management qualification journey utilising their team leadership experience. For example Air Specialists Class 1 with secondary associated duties such as secretary of a sports club could use their rank and experiences to achieve a place on the foundation degree. To get started using your rank alone you will need to hold the minimum of Lance Corporal or Leading Hand.
The University of Lincoln is an Approved Learning Provider under the Armed Forces Enhanced Learning Credits (ELC) scheme, and this degree programme is underpinned by twenty years of military student focussed research and development.
Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area deployments or other such commitments. In effect students can pause on their studies until they are in a position to continue.
How You Study
Students can have up to ten hours contact time with their tutors with the remainder being self-directed study. A range of teaching and learning methods are used on theFdSc Operations Management including using Blackboard which is an online teaching and learning resource. Teaching on the course is through a range of methods such as podcasts, Wikis and blogs with the aim to facilitate a community of practice learners. Blackboard is also used for assessment purposes. 
How You Are Assessed
The course and associated assessments are at final year degree level and, applicants should be prepared to offer the commitment and dedication to produce work of an appropriate standard.Throughout the programme, assessment methods are designed to enable you to develop your potential and are based on the development of close working relationships between tutor and individual student. Hence, assessment strategies aim to reflect the focus of the course on independent self-managed learning.
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  no later than 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course will vary for each module. It could include coursework, such as a dissertation or essay, written and practical exams, portfolio development, group work or presentations.
Duration
s personal circumstances and work commitments.", 'Modules
The programme starts, as might be expected, with a traditional study skills module which is aimed at creating the opportunity for the students to build their own body of knowledge. The modules aspiration is to introduce students to the various tools and techniques of study. At the end of this module it is expected that students will have a basic toolkit which they can draw on throughout their academic journey.
Introduction to Operations Management continues to build on the role of the operations manager by looking at tools and techniques supporting the daily delivery of the organisations outcomes. Building on the management of people this module focuses on processes and systems. It introduces the underlying concepts of operations management and how these can be used to develop and deliver the operational outcomes linked to the strategic outcomes of the organisation.
The Managing People module sees the students studying the development of the staff within an organisation. As part of the operational process people will be an important factor in delivering the operation. This module sets the scene for this approach by outlining the theory, practise and individual experiences of supporting and managing people to deliver the operation This module reviews the principles of HRM to understand how people can be developed to meet their own needs and those of the organisation.
Planning and control systems adopts a summative approach in which people and systems are brought together within the operational concept to develop planning and control insight into the delivery of the operation. Although focused on the internal elements of organisations and their operations it does take the first steps in looking beyond the organisation to develop a view of the value chain the organisation sits in.
Academic studies at level 2 returns to the tools and techniques of academic skills. Students, having practised initial learning skills at level 1 now focus on more advanced skills and in particular research skills that arm them with the tools and techniques they will need to explore the capstone module and the Operations Challenge.
The module Developing as a Leader and Manager moves past basic management skills and looks at the role of the individual in leading and managing a team within the operational context. It draws on level 1 study to review the role of the manager as a leader within a team within the operations setting.
The module Digital Technologies begins to draw the study to a close by asking students to reflect on the operational process through the prisms of new technology and how this will impact the management of the process and systems within the operation. Digital technologies are presented as a key tool for the combination of various activities for the manager to use as a dashboard for the design, delivery and improvement of the operational process.
The Degree concludes with a capstone module which requires students to draw on the programme to develop a project for the improvement of a chosen organisation. This module has a pragmatic and practitioner focus offering students the opportunity to apply the learning to a real-life situation echoing the role a student as producer.
Benefits for Students
As prospective students are already employed, benefits of the degree for those individuals are:
Benefits for the MoD
The MOD may benefit from the following features of the course:
Features
Students may benefit from many aspects of the course including:


Entry Requirements
All applicants will be selected for the programme individually, based on the articulated entry requirements in line with the University policy. It is expected that some students will use a combination of experience and previous qualifications to join the course, applicants who already hold a level 4 qualification may be able to start at Level 5, completing the final 4 modules to achieve the foundation degree.
As this work-based programme is designed for those who are not immediately continuing from Level 3, we consider a wide range of applications, so encourage individual eligibility requests.
Fees
Contact Details for Further Enquiries:
Email: mpg@lincoln.ac.uk

Additional Costs
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Your Future Career
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. The course is designed can enable students to extend their skills, knowledge and perspective and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Careers Service
The University Careers and Employability Team offer qualified advisors who can work with students to provide tailored, individual support and careers advice during their time at the University. As a member of our alumni we also offer one-to-one support in the first year after completing a course, including access to events, vacancy information and website resources; with access to online vacancies and virtual resources for the following two years.
This service can include one-to-one coaching, CV advice and interview preparation to help you maximise our graduates future opportunities.
The service works closely with local, national and international employers, acting as a gateway to the business world.
Visit our Careers Service pages for further informationhttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/campuslife/studentsupport/careersservice/.


BSc (Hons) Logistics Management (Military) | Military Programmes | University of LincolnKey Information
Part-time Duration:13-24 Months
School: Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus [L]
Validation Status:Validated
Enquire Today
Telephone: 01522 835514 |Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now (Open Route) | Apply Now (Closed Route)
Introduction
 capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment.", 'Logistics underpins the ability to project military force. This capability must always ensure battle-winning effectiveness but must remain affordable in resource terms. The University of Lincoln acknowledges that these requirements call for a high level of managerial underpinning and an associated level of academic expertise. The BSc (Hons) Logistics Management degree present military logistics specialists at all levels with the opportunity to enhance managerial and academic skills within their particular area of operational expertise. The first and second levels of the degree are accredited through previous academic qualifications and relevant professional experience, allowing students to join in the third year of the degree.
Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area deployments or other such commitments.In effect students can pause their studies until they are in a position to continue.
How You Study
Students have up to ten hours contact time with their tutors with the remainder being self-directed study. A range of teaching and learning methods are used on the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management) including using Blackboard which is an online teaching and learning resource. Teaching on the course is through a range of methods such as podcasts, Wikis and blogs with the aim to facilitate a community of practice learners. Blackboard is also used for assessment purposes and students study and are assessed completely online.How You Are Assessed
The course and associated assessments are at final year degree level and, applicants should be prepared to offer the commitment and dedication to produce work of an appropriate standard.Throughout the programme assessment methods are designed to enable you to develop your potential and are based on the development of close working relationships between tutor and individual student. Hence, assessment strategies aim to reflect the focus of the course on independent self-managed learning.
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  no later than 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course will vary for each module. It could include coursework, such as a dissertation or essay, written, and portfolio development, or presentations.
Duration
s personal circumstances and work commitments.", 'Modules (Logistics Officers LOGMGTUB)
This module aims to equip students the appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their studies, and the Independent Research Project in particular.
The aim of this module is to enable students to critically examine the supply chain and to understand the key role that the Supply Chain Manager has to play within successful organisations. Students can evaluate some of the key issues that shape the development and selection of appropriate supply chain strategy in light of the growing requirement to achieve competitive advantage and overall value within the global market place. Finally, against growing calls for increasingly efficient supply chains, students have the opportunity to evaluate the influence of emergent academic concepts within the field.
The dissertation is the capstone project of the programme. It provides students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills they have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project should be a real-world issue or a research topic. Whilst it is intended that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of our programmes, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with their supervisor, dissertation coordinator and programme leader.
Students can choose from one of the following optional electives:

Managing the Food Supply Chain
This module aims to address the theory and practices of supply chain management within the context of the food supply system. The aim of the module is to develop knowledge and understanding of the topic of food supply chain management which can be applied to the workplace, to provide the student with the credibility to advise colleagues and higher management with regard to the effectiveness, efficiency and profitability of their employers businesses.

Managing Distribution Logistics
This module builds on the Strategic Supply Chain Management module to focus on the operational functions which empower and enable the adopted strategic position.

Managing Humanitarian Logistics
Natural disasters (such as floods, droughts, earthquakes, hurricanes, and famine) and man-made disasters (such as wars, conflicts, and refugee crises) have increasingly impacted communities and nations around the world in recent decades, and forecasts suggest that the trend will continue. The purpose of this module is to develop the skills needed to manage the supply chain and the associated logistics functions within a natural or man-made disaster.

Managing Transport Logistics
This module aims to develop the skills needed to manage a transport logistics operation. The supply chain involves the flow of materials from one element of the supply chain to the next. This is between and across logistics functions and operational process. The flow of goods often involves the movement of both finished and work in progress goods. The physical movement of these goods involves transportation. As supply chains become more complex and geographically dispersed the need for transport grows. Included in this demand is the need to have transport which can support the strategic position adopted by the organisation.

Managing Projects
In this module students have the opportunity to develop a solid foundation in the theory and best practice of project management, and can develop the practical skills of how to plan, implement and control projects. The module aims to provide students with an understanding of the system perspective on management and a practically-oriented introduction to the nature, purpose and standards of project management and its key functional objectives (scope, time, cost, quality, risk and flexibility). The role and qualities of the project manager and the composition of the team are also evaluated.

Managing Operations
This module aims to prepare students to work at the operational level within the logistics sector and enables students to apply attributes, tools and techniques of operational management whilst working within the business strategy. The use of the transformation process is explored to identify the links between the resources, the organisational process and the customer. This provides an insight into operational stakeholder and customer management techniques.
Modules (Officers, WOs, SNCOs and by exception JNCOs)
This module aims to equip students with appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their studies, the Independent Research Project in particular.
This module is designed to develop and assess students ability to reflect critically on leadership and management professional practice and experiences. The expectation is that academic theory and literature will be critically reviewed and applied to the professional experience and organisational context to allow for personal development planning.
The aim of this module is to enable students to critically examine the supply chain and to understand the key role that the Supply Chain Manager has to play within successful organisations. Students can evaluate some of the key issues that shape the development and selection of appropriate supply chain strategy in light of the growing requirement to achieve competitive advantage and overall value within the global market place. Finally, against growing calls for increasingly efficient supply chains, students to will be given the opportunity to evaluate the influence of emergent academic concepts within the field.
The dissertation is the capstone project of the programme. It provides students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project should be a real-world issue or a research topic. Whilst it is intended that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of our programmes, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with the supervisor, dissertation coordinator and programme leader
Students can choose from one of the following optional electives:

Managing the Food Supply Chain
This module aims to address the theory and practices of supply chain management within the context of the food supply system. The aim of the module is to develop knowledge and understanding of the topic of food supply chain management which can be applied to the work place, to provide the student with the credibility to advise subordinates and higher management with regard to effectiveness, efficiency and profitability of their employers businesses.

Managing Distribution Logistics
This module builds on the Strategic Supply Chain module to focus on the operational functions which empower and enable the adopted strategic position.

Managing Humanitarian Logistics
Natural disasters (such as floods, droughts, earthquakes, hurricanes, and famine) and man-made disasters (such as wars, conflicts, and refugee crises) have increasingly impacted communities and nations around the world in recent decades, and forecasts suggest that the trend will continue. The purpose of this module is to develop the skills needed to manage the supply chain and the associated logistics functions within a natural or man-made disaster.

Managing Transport Logistics
This module aims to develop the skills needed to manage a transport logistics operation. The supply chain involves the flow of materials from one element of the supply chain to the next. This is between and across logistics functions and operational process. The flow of goods often involves the movement of both finished and work in progress goods. The physical movement of these goods involves transportation. As supply chains become more complex and geographically dispersed the need for transport grows. Included in this demand is the need to have transport which can support the strategic position adopted by the organisation
Students can choose from one of the following optional electives:
Managing Projects
In this module students have the opportunity to develop a solid foundation in the theory and best practice of project management, and can develop the practical skills of how to plan, implement and control projects. The module aims to provide students with an understanding of the system perspective on management and a practically-oriented introduction to the nature, purpose and standards of project management and its key functional objectives (scope, time, cost, quality, risk and flexibility). The role and qualities of the project manager and the composition of the team are also evaluated.

Managing Operations
This module aims to prepare students to work at the operational level within the logistics sector and looks to enable students to apply attributes, tools and techniques of operational management whilst working within the business strategy. The use of the transformation process is explored to identify the links between the resources, the organisational process and the customer. This provides an insight into operational stakeholder and customer management techniques.
Benefits for Students
Students may benefit from the following features of the course:
Benefits for the MoD
The MOD may benefit from the following features of the course:
Accreditation
The programme is accredited as meeting the academic requirements of Chartered Membership of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) UK, subject to final degree classification. Upon successful completion of your Work Based Distance Learning degree, you will* qualify for a Level 5 Diploma with the CMI in Management and Leadership and Chartered Manager status, the highest status that can be achieved in the management profession.
*for students who have studied and gained credit through the Initial Logistics Officer Course with the Royal Navy the Level 5 Diploma with the CMI in Management and Leadership and Chartered Manager status in only available if the Managing Operations elective module is chosen.
Entry Requirements
This is a final level top-up degree course, with Level one and two being accredited through previous academic qualifications and/or relevant experience. The University has recognised the high standard of phase one and two training received by military logistics personnel through formal accreditation of the first two levels of study of the undergraduate degree programme. This means officers, SNCOs, and, JNCOs who have successfully completed phase one and phase two training have the final year of the degree to complete as described under the modules tab.Applicants should also have a relevant Level 5 qualification such as a Foundation Degree, HND, and CMI Level 5 or similar.
Logistics Officers
Programme Code:LOGMGTUB
The University of Lincoln has recognised the high standard of phase one and two training received by logistics personnel in their career training. This has led to the formal accreditation of this military training which means Logistic Officers gain credits to meet the first two levels of study of this undergraduate degree programme.
Study on the initial Logistics Officer training is also recognised by the university formally through an agreement with the Defence College of Logistics, Personnel and Administration (DCLPA), for the accreditation of an additional two final year modules worth 45 of the 120 credit points needed. This leaves successful RN ILOC, RLC TCC and RAF LOT graduates who have completed their military training within the 5 years prior to enrolment on the degree programme, needing to complete only a further four final level modules (75 of the 120 CATS points) successfully in order to gain the BSc (Hons) Logistics Management degree.
Students will complete the Critical Enquiry Skills for Distance Learning, Strategic Supply Chain Management, an elective logistics module and an Independent Study Project.
Officers, WOs, SNCOs and by exception JNCOs
Programme Code:LOGLDLUB
The University of Lincoln has recognised the high standard of phase one and two training received by logistics personnel in their career training through formal accreditation of the first two levels of study of the undergraduate degree programme.
This leaves officers, WOs, SNCOs and JNCOs the final level of the degree to successfully complete (120 credit points). This can be achieved through the study of six modules (including two logistics electives) described under the modules tab.
Applicants should have a relevant Level 5 qualification obtained within the last five years such as a Foundation Degree, HND, CMI Level 5 or similar. They should also be able to display experience as a logistics practitioner and be in a role in which they can apply management knowledge at the appropriate level.
Fees
The current course fee is for the whole programme based on completion within two years following initial enrolment. This fee can be paid in two instalments.
*Subject to annual review of fees.
**Current or previous serving members of the UK Military may be eligible for a fees bursary. In order to qualify for this you must provide a Statement of Service/Military ID or any other formal evidence of your service with your application pack. If your application is successful we will provide details of the bursary enclosed in your offer letter. Our ELCAS provider number is 1283.

Contact Details for Further Enquiries:
Email: mpg@lincoln.ac.uk | Telephone +44 (0)1522 835514

Additional Costs:
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Your Future Career
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. The course is designed can enable students to extend their skills, knowledge and perspective and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Careers Service
The University Careers and Employability Team offer qualified advisors who can work with students to provide tailored, individual support and careers advice during their time at the University. As a member of our alumni we also offer one-to-one support in the first year after completing a course, including access to events, vacancy information and website resources; with access to online vacancies and virtual resources for the following two years.
This service can include one-to-one coaching, CV advice and interview preparation to help you maximise our graduates future opportunities.
The service works closely with local, national and international employers, acting as a gateway to the business world.
Visit our Careers Service pages for further informationhttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/campuslife/studentsupport/careersservice/.


BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Comms) | Military Programmes | University of LincolnKey Information
Part-time Duration:13-24 Months
School: Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus [L]
Validation Status:Validated
Enquire Today
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
Introduction
The effectiveness of any military force depends on its managers understanding of the evolving requirement to sustain, retain, attract and recruit the people it needs. Your management skills are key to transforming your people, and this course can enable you to utilise the military system to unlock their full potential while achieving your own.
The University recognises that this requirement calls for a high-level of managerial and professional competence. The BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Management) presents Royal Corps of Signals Officers who are undertaking the Royal Corps of Signals Troop Commanders and Supervisors courseswith an opportunity to enhance their managerial and academic skills within this particular area of operational expertise. The programme is open to all undertaking these courses and offers students an opportunity to upgrade their academic qualifications and work experience to achieve a degree in Communications Management, a Diploma in Management and Leadership and Chartered Manager Status the highest status that can in achieved in the management profession.
Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area deployments or other such commitments.In effect students can pause their studies until they are in a position to continue.
How You Study
Students have up to ten hours contact time with their tutors with the remainder being self-directed study. A range of teaching and learning methods are used on the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management) including using Blackboard which is an online teaching and learning resource. Teaching on the course is through a range of methods such as podcasts, Wikis and blogs with the aim to facilitate a community of practice learners. Blackboard is also used for assessment purposes and students study and are assessed completely online.
How You Are Assessed
The course and associated assessments are at final year degree level and, applicants should be prepared to offer the commitment and dedication to produce work of an appropriate standard.Throughout the programme assessment methods are designed to enable you to develop your potential and are based on the development of close working relationships between tutor and individual student. Hence, assessment strategies aim to reflect the focus of the course on independent self-managed learning.
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  no later than 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course will vary for each module. It could include coursework,such as a dissertation or essay, written, and portfolio development, or presentations.
Duration
s personal circumstances and work commitments.", 'Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area deployments or other such commitments.In effect students can pause their studies until they are in a position to continue.
Modules
This module aims to equip students with the appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their studies, the Independent Research Project in particular. The module assessment is a portfolio of 3000 words, example contents could include an evaluation of published research, problem identification tasks, and the outline of a research design or the resolution of an ethical dilemma.
This module aims to introduce students to system design concepts and tools, and challenges students to think critically about their potential and actual application in engineering. Students are introduced to the engineering of systems design from an operations perspective, which is designed to focus on directing operations and designing operations. Students can undertake a module assessment is a 3000word portfolio, example contents could include a review of your organisation or a plan to implement a chosen design model.
This module aims to introduce students to issues surrounding the management of systems in engineering. This takes a systems approach and challenges students to identify and consider their operations and services as (interacting) systems, and to look at the tools available to organise and manage such systems. It uses some of the approaches of management sciences (e.g. operational research and management, industrial engineering, business statistics and project management) and requires students to identify how these relate to their own engineering experiences or expectations. Students can undertake a 3000-word portfolio module assessment, example contents could include reports, a system proposal and reflective learning account.
The final module aims to provide students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project can be a real-world issue or a research topic. Whilst it is intended that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of our programmes, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with their supervisor, dissertation coordinator and programme leader. The module assessment includes an initial project plan weighted at ten percent and a project submission as agreed with your supervisor of 10,000 words, which includes a 1000-word reflective piece which can facilitate your achievement of Chartered Manager status.
Benefits for Students
Students may benefit from the following features of the course:
Benefits for the MoD
The MOD may benefit from the following features of the course:
Dual Accreditation
Chartered Management Institute (CMI)
Chartered Manager
This award recognises:
Entry Requirements
The University of Lincoln has recognised the high standard of phase one and two training received by Royal Air Force Communications Electronics Engineer Officers through formal accreditation of the first two levels of study of a undergraduate degree programme in addition, through an agreement with the Defence College of Technical Training (DCTT) of the accreditation of additional final level modules. This can enable EOFT(CE) students undertaking their military training the opportunity to enrol on the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management) programme. Two modules can be completed within your EOFT training and students on successful completion receive a 45 credit transcript for these modules.
You can then return to the University of Lincoln within five years. Students can successfully complete a further four final level modules in order to be awarded the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management) degree. Students can complete the Critical Enquiry Skills, Engineering Systems Design, Engineering Systems Management and Independent Research Project modules as described under the modules tab.
Individuals who have not enrolled within four weeks of starting their phase two training will not be eligible for this programme.

Fees
**The price reflects that current or previous serving members of the UK Military are eligible for a Military fees scholarship. In order to qualify for this, you must provide a Statement of Service/Military ID or any other formal evidence of your service with your application pack. The scholarship will be offset at Enrolment, against the tuition fee payments for each academic year of study. Our ELCAS provider number is 1283.

Contact Details for Further Enquiries:
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk

Additional Costs:
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Your Future Career
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. The course is designed can enable students to extend their skills, knowledge and perspective and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Careers Service
The University Careers and Employability Team offer qualified advisors who can work with students to provide tailored, individual support and careers advice during their time at the University. As a member of our alumni we also offer one-to-one support in the first year after completing a course, including access to events, vacancy information and website resources; with access to online vacancies and virtual resources for the following two years.
This service can include one-to-one coaching, CV advice and interview preparation to help you maximise our graduates future opportunities.
The service works closely with local, national and international employers, acting as a gateway to the business world.
Visit our Careers Service pages for further information.


BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Comms Engineer) | Military Programmes | University of LincolnKey Information
Part-time Duration:13-24 Months
School: Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus [L]
Validation Status:Validated
Enquire Today
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
Introduction
The effectiveness of any military force depends on its managers understanding of the evolving requirement to sustain, retain, attract and recruit the people it needs. Your management skills are key to transforming your people, utilising the military system to unlock their full potential while achieving your own.
The University recognises that this requirement calls for a high-level of managerial and professional competence. The BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management) presents EOFT students with an opportunity to enhance their managerial and academic skills within this particular area of operational expertise. The programme is open to all suitably qualified candidates and offers students an opportunity to transfer their academic qualifications and work experience to achieve a degree in Communications Engineering Management. 
Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations do permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area or other such commitments. In effect students can pausetheir studies until they are in a position to continue.
How You Study
Students have up to ten hours contact time with their tutors with the remainder being self-directed study. A range of teaching and learning methods are used on the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management) including using Blackboard which is an online teaching and learning resource. Teaching on the course is through a range of methods such as podcasts, Wikis and blogs with the aim to facilitate a community of practice learners. Blackboard is also used for assessment purposes and students study and are assessed completely online.
How You Are Assessed
The course and associated assessments are at final year degree level and, applicants should be prepared to offer the commitment and dedication to produce work of an appropriate standard.Throughout the programme assessment methods are designed to enable you to develop your potential. The course enables you to consider the application of general theory to your specific working environment and assessment strategies can include reflection, essays, reports, portfolios and a short video. Exams and group work are not utilised. 
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  no later than 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course will vary for each module. It could include coursework,such as a dissertation or essay, written, and portfolio development, or presentations.
Duration
s personal circumstances and work commitments.", 'Modules
This module aims to equip students with the appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their studies, the Independent Research Project in particular. The module assessment is a portfolio of 3000 words, example contents could include an evaluation of published research, problem identification tasks, and the outline of a research design or the resolution of an ethical dilemma.
This module aims to introduce students to system design concepts and tools, and challenges students to think critically about their potential and actual application in engineering. Students are introduced to the engineering of systems design from an operations perspective, which is designed to focus on directing operations and designing operations. Students can undertake a module assessment is a 3000word portfolio, example contents could include a review of your organisation or a plan to implement a chosen design model.
This module aims to introduce students to issues surrounding the management of systems in engineering. This takes a systems approach and challenges students to identify and consider their operations and services as (interacting) systems, and to look at the tools available to organise and manage such systems. It uses some of the approaches of management sciences (e.g. operational research and management, industrial engineering, business statistics and project management) and requires students to identify how these relate to their own engineering experiences or expectations. Students can undertake a 3000-word portfolio module assessment, example contents could include reports, a system proposal and reflective learning account.
The final module aims to provide students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project can be a real-world issue or a research topic. Whilst it is intended that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of our programmes, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with their supervisor, dissertation coordinator and programme leader. The module assessment includes an initial project plan weighted at ten percent and a project submission as agreed with your supervisor of 10,000 words, which includes a 1000-word reflective piece which can facilitate your achievement of Chartered Manager status.
Benefits for Students
Students may benefit from the following features of the course:
Benefits for the MoD
The MOD may benefit from the following features of the course:
Dual Accreditation
Chartered Management Institute (CMI)
Chartered Manager
This award recognises:
Entry Requirements
The University of Lincoln has recognised the high standard of phase one and two training received by Royal Air Force Communications Electronics Engineer Officers through formal accreditation of the first two levels of study of a undergraduate degree programme in addition, through an agreement with the Defence College of Technical Training (DCTT) of the accreditation of additional final level modules. This can enable EOFT(CE) students undertaking their military training the opportunity to enrol on the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management) programme. Two modules can be completed within your EOFT training and students on successful completion receive a 45 credit transcript for these modules.
You can then return to the University of Lincoln within five years. Students can successfully complete a further four final level modules in order to be awarded the BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management) degree. Students can complete the Critical Enquiry Skills, Engineering Systems Design, Engineering Systems Management and Independent Research Project modules as described under the modules tab.
Individuals who have not enrolled within four weeks of starting their phase two training will not be eligible for this programme.

Fees
**The price reflects that current or previous serving members of the UK Military are eligible for a Military fees scholarship. In order to qualify for this, you must provide a Statement of Service/Military ID or any other formal evidence of your service with your application pack. The scholarship will be offset at Enrolment, against the tuition fee payments for each academic year of study. Our ELCAS provider number is 1283.

Contact Details for Further Enquiries:
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk

Additional Costs:
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Your Future Career
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. The course is designed can enable students to extend their skills, knowledge and perspective and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Careers Service
The University Careers and Employability Team offer qualified advisors who can work with students to provide tailored, individual support and careers advice during their time at the University. As a member of our alumni we also offer one-to-one support in the first year after completing a course, including access to events, vacancy information and website resources; with access to online vacancies and virtual resources for the following two years.
This service can include one-to-one coaching, CV advice and interview preparation to help you maximise our graduates future opportunities.
The service works closely with local, national and international employers, acting as a gateway to the business world.
Visit our Careers Service pages for further informationhttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/campuslife/studentsupport/careersservice/.


BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Open Military) | Military Programmes | University of LincolnKey Information
Part-time Duration:18-24 Months
School: Lincoln International Business School
Campus:Lincoln Campus [L]
Validation Status:Validated
Enquire Today
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.ukorApply Now
Introduction
The effectiveness of any military force depends on its managers understanding of the evolving requirement to sustain, retain, attract and recruit the people it needs. Your management skills are key to transforming your people, and this course can enable you to utilise the military system to unlock their full potential and achieve your own.
The University of Lincoln recognises the need for both a high level of managerial underpinning and an associated level of academic expertise and has developed The BSc (Hons) Engineering Management as a final year top-up course. The degree presents military engineers and technicians at all levels with an opportunity to enhance their managerial and academic skills within their particular area of operational expertise.Qualified applicants will join the degree in the third year
The programme is open to all suitably qualified applicants and offers an opportunity to transfer relevant academic qualifications and work experience to achieve a degree in Engineering Management. The first and second years of the degree are accredited through previous academic qualifications and/or relevant professional experience.
Flexibility
Flexibility is a key feature of this programme and University of Lincoln regulations do permit military students to formally interrupt their studies, at no extra cost for a period of up to 24 months in light of Out of Area or other such commitments. In effect students can pausetheir studies until they are in a position to continue.
How You Study
A range of teaching and learning methods are used on theBSc (Hons) Engineering Management central to this is Blackboard which is an online teaching and learning resource. Teaching on the course is through a range of methods such as online sessions, directed reading and videos with an aim to facilitate a community of practice learners.
How You Are Assessed
The course and associated assessments are at final year degree level and, applicants should be prepared to offer the commitment and dedication to produce work of an appropriate standard.Throughout the programme assessment methods are designed to enable you to develop your potential. The course enables you to consider the application of general theory to your specific working environment and assessment strategies can include reflection, essays, reports, portfolios and a short video. Exams and group work are not utilised.
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  no later than 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course will vary for each module. It could include coursework,such as a dissertation or essay, written, and portfolio development, or presentations.
Duration
s personal circumstances and work commitments.", 'Modules
This module aims to equip students with the appropriate knowledge and skills to enable them to engage critically with their studies, the Independent Research Project in particular. The module assessment is a portfolio of 3000 words, example contents could include an evaluation of published research, problem identification tasks, and the outline of a research design or the resolution of an ethical dilemma.
This module is designed to develop and assess students ability to reflect critically on leadership and management professional practice and experience. Academic theory and literature can be critically reviewed and applied to professional experience and an organisational context to allow for personal development planning. Discussion areas within the context of leadership and management and the students own professional experience and organisation may typically comprise:

The module assessment comprises of a 4000-word report and 2000-word reflective learning log.
This module aims to introduce students to system design concepts and tools, and challenges students to think critically about their potential and actual application in engineering. Students are introduced to the engineering of systems design from an operations perspective, which is designed to focus on directing operations and designing operations. Students can undertake a module assessment is a 3000word portfolio, example contents could include a review of your organisation or a plan to implement a chosen design model.
This module aims to introduce students to issues surrounding the management of systems in engineering. This takes a systems approach and challenges students to identify and consider their operations and services as (interacting) systems, and to look at the tools available to organise and manage such systems. It uses some of the approaches of management sciences (e.g. operational research and management, industrial engineering, business statistics and project management) and requires students to identify how these relate to their own engineering experiences or expectations. Students can undertake a 3000-word portfolio module assessment, example contents could include reports, a system proposal and reflective learning account.
Coaching and Mentoring
This module aims to introduce students to coaching and mentoring as an approach to organisational performance improvement. Coaching can be understood as facilitating someone to reach their own potential to maximise their own performance, helping them learn rather than telling them. Whereas mentoring is the sharing of knowledge from an experienced colleague with a colleague less experienced in a relationship of mutual trust. This module assessment is a 3000-word portfolio, example contents are typically a 1500-word report and a 1500-word reflection.
Health and Safety Management
This module aims to introduce the creation of effective management systems for safe and effective work environments. The module aims to develop existing compliance knowledge, asking students to evaluate policies and procedures that are in place within their organisation which are designed to achieve compliance. Students are encouraged to explore and question current processes in order to develop their own management skills, with emphasis on the human element rather than administrative procedures. It involves the application of a number of techniques which combine both knowledge and problem-solving skills. The module assessment is 3000-word management report based on an inspection of a chosen area within the students workplace.
Venture Creation
This module is designed to enable students to use entrepreneurial skills they have gained through the study of both theory and practice and to pursue careers in a range of industries. It encourages the application of free thinking to contemporary situations and the application of a conceptual environment to a number of business situations. The module examines modern day success stories of contemporary businesses and traces their origins and reasons for successful accomplishments. It aims to reflect the entrepreneurial learning process which informs how entrepreneurs learn from previous mistakes. The module assessment is a 4000-word business plan.
Managing Projects
In this module students have the opportunity to develop a solid foundation in the theory and best practice of project management, and can develop the practical skills of how to plan, implement and control projects. The module aims to provide students with an understanding of the system perspective on management and a practically-oriented introduction to the nature, purpose and standards of project management and its key functional objectives (scope, time, cost, quality, risk and flexibility). The role and qualities of the project manager and the composition of the team are also evaluated. Students can undertake a 3000-word report module assessment, recommending ways in which performance objectives could be achieved to cope with future requirements and challenges within the students organisation.
Logistics and Supply Chain Management
This module aims to introduce students to the key concept of managing a logistics and supply chain, and to build a framework within which they can critically analyse the performance of these functions. Practice logistics and supply chain management is about the way in which organisations deliver outputs in support of the organisations intended objectives. Students can undertake a 3000-word briefing module assessment with regard to the operational efficiency of the SCM/Logistics function, with recommendation on how to improve upon the current performance.
The final module aims to provide students with the opportunity to apply, integrate, and deepen the knowledge, insights, and skills that have learned throughout the programme of study. The focus of this project can be a real-world issue or a research topic. Whilst it is intended that most students will complete a work-based research project, in keeping with the ethos of our programmes, this module seeks to enable and facilitate innovation and creativity. Therefore, the format of the final assessment can be negotiated with their supervisor, dissertation coordinator and programme leader. The module assessment includes an initial project plan weighted at ten percent and a project submission as agreed with your supervisor of 10,000 words, which includes a 1000-word reflective piece which can facilitate your achievement of Chartered Manager status.
Benefits for Students
Students may benefit from the following features of the course:
Benefits for the MoD
The MOD may benefit from the following features of the course:
Dual Accreditation
Chartered Management Institute (CMI)
Chartered Manager
This award recognises:
Entry Requirements
This is a final level top-up degree course, Level four and five are accredited through previous academic qualifications and/or relevant experience. The University has recognised the high standard of training received by military personnel therefore as entry we accept:

Fees
*Subject to annual review of fees.
**The price reflects that current or previous serving members of the UK Military are eligible for a Military fees scholarship. In order to qualify for this, you must provide a Statement of Service/Military ID or any other formal evidence of your service with your application pack. The scholarship will be offset at Enrolment, against the tuition fee payments for each academic year of study. Our ELCAS provider number is 1283.

Contact Details for Further Enquiries:
Email:askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk

Additional Costs:
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Your Future Career
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. The course is designedto enable students to extend their skills, knowledge, and perspective, and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Careers Service
The University Careers and Employability Team offer qualified advisors who can work with students to provide tailored, individual support and careers advice during their time at the University. As a member of our alumni we also offer one-to-one support in the first year after completing a course, including access to events, vacancy information and website resources; with access to online vacancies and virtual resources for the following two years.
This service can include one-to-one coaching, CV advice and interview preparation to help you maximise our graduates future opportunities.
The service works closely with local, national and international employers, acting as a gateway to the business world.
Visit our Careers Service pages for further informationhttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/campuslife/studentsupport/careersservice/.


National Apprenticeship Week | Apprenticeships | University of LincolnDegree Apprenticeships
National Apprenticeship Week 2024

Celebrating our Degree Apprentices
Lincoln International Business School is delighted to be showcasing and celebrating the success of their apprentices during a special Degree Apprenticeship Celebration Event on Thursday 8thFebruary.
This event, which falls within theNational Apprenticeship Week, (5thto 11thFebruary 2024), will allow Business School staff, apprentices and employers the opportunity to celebrate achievements, compare learner journeys as well as networking with like-minded professionals. It also allows any employers who are contemplating apprenticeships to meet and ask questions of those who have already experienced this pathway.
Degree Apprenticeship Celebration Event - 8th February 2024
Celebrate Our Apprentices Success With Us!
Join us in celebrating the success of our latest Degree Apprentices and hear more about their apprenticeship journey. Its also a great opportunity to network and find out more about the employer and employee benefits of apprenticeships directly from our staff, apprentices, and their employers.

Degree Apprenticeships that work for the Apprentice and Employer
Our Degree Apprenticeship is a great way for employers to up-skill their teams and succession plan for management roles.
Motivate Staff and Provide New CPD Opportunities
Degree Apprenticeships are a great way to motivate staff and provide new opportunities for continued professional development, with fresh thinking, skills and behaviours.

Gain a degree and a CMI qualification in one course.
Chartered Management Degree Apprenticeship (CMDA)
Develop Key Skills and Learn from Peers
Employees benefit from developing key skills to enable to them to progress their career, learning not only from an experienced academic team but also from the experience of their peers

Understand and operate your business at a strategic level
Shape Your Future with a Senior Leader Apprenticeship (SLA)
The Senior Leader Apprenticeship (SLA) is designed for those who need to understand and operate their business at a strategic level. The SLA is an investment in the organisation as much as it is in the employee. Up-skilling and empowering provides the organisation with an asset no matter what business environment you operate in.


Senior Leader Apprenticeship | Apprenticeships | University of LincolnSenior Leader Apprenticeship
Duration: 18 months, part-time
Fee: 14,000
Entry Points: April and October
Delivery Method: Blended (in-person and online)
Status: Subject to Validation
Enquire Here
Shape Your Future with a Senior Leader Apprenticeship (SLA)
The Senior Leader Apprenticeship (SLA) is designed for leaders who need to understand and operate their business at a strategic level. The SLA is an investment in the organisation as much as it is in the employee. Upskilling and empowering provides the organisation with an asset no matter what business environment you operate in.
Armed with right Knowledge, Skills and Behaviours the University of Lincoln can make a difference to your future as a leader.
Recruit an Apprentice
For those employers that are looking to find an apprentice to recruit into their organisation, the government have a portal from which you can advertise your requirements.
Find an Apprentice
Why Lincoln?
There are many great reasons why our students and staff are proud of the University of Lincoln, including our inspirational teaching, world-leading research, and close links with industry.
When you come to study with us, you can be confident that you are joining a university that places the quality of the student experience at the heart of everything it does.
Employers are increasingly looking for individuals who can make a difference in todays global workplace. With our expert staff, modern facilities, close links with business, and pioneering research we aim to provide the tools you need to achieve your career aspirations.
Benefits
To drive medium to long-term organisational growth, senior managers must shift from an operational focus to a strategic one, leveraging their creative problem-solving skills and diverse leadership styles to tackle complex challenges. The SLA is ideally placed to provide practical application to help the transition.
Employer Benefits

Have a capable and competitive workforce

Achieve organisational long-term goals

A positive and productive work environment

Staff enabled to focus on strategic initiatives effectively

Make organisational change with new technologies and market conditions
Employee Benefits

Critical decision making, impacting organisational long-term goals

Increased employee engagement and productivity

Enhanced innovation and creativity

Improved adaptability and resilience

Stronger organisational performance
Programme Overview
The SLA comprises five core units that drive personal growth and organisational impact. Each module explores key universal themes with contemporary leadership challenges, informed by cutting-edge research.
Click here to view the SLA programme structure
Required to Complete the Apprenticeship
Apprentices will be expected to attend a 1.5-day induction at the start of the programme and group tutorials with the Programme Leader twice per year online. The apprentices can take part in other enrichment activities. The training assessor will provide one to one support, group tutorials and quarterly reviews. The National Apprenticeship Week usually in February each year will provide an opportunity to take part in a study week and to join us at our celebration event. And of course, the employer will be invited to graduation at the Lincoln Cathedral after the successful completion the programme.
Either online or a blended model.
Apprentices can attend a mixture of both face-to-face delivery and online delivery or attend fully online via Teams, with a typical apprentice attending 1 face-to-face day module and the online webinars and tutorials per module, with some individual online tutorials in addition. This diverse cohort structure allows apprentices to gain insights and perspectives from various sectors, fostering a rich learning environment. This structure also promotes collaboration and networking among peers.
The Portfolio will include a combination of the degree assessments and the formative assessments.
The End Point Assessment is reflective of the learning journey and ties up the knowledge, skills, and behaviours through a strategic work-based project. This will be through a presentation of the apprentices strategic plan, followed by a professional discussion.u202f
The apprentice will be required to prepare a 4,000-word research proposal for a work-based project with a report and presentation element, in preparation for the end point assessment.
The preferred end point organisation by the University of Lincoln is the Chartered Management Institute (CMI). The EPA includes the level 7 CMI and the Chartered Manager status. This recognition from the CMI and Chartered Manager Status provides apprentices with valuable credentials that can enhance their career prospects and open doors to higher-level management positions.
Upon successful completion of the SLA, you will have the opportunity to attain:

Each apprentice will have a dedicated training assessor for each module, as well as an experienced module tutor and a Programme Leader. There is also a dedicated administration team for apprenticeships. Additionally, each apprentice will be assigned a work-based mentor from their own organisation and will have regular meetings with all staff involved in the program.
Fees
Level 7 Senior Leader Apprenticeship: 14,000 (funded by the apprenticeship levy)
Optional MBA top-up 3,280 (not subject to levy funding)
Funding
Employers with a payroll in excess of 3 million will pay a 0.5% levy on the organisations payroll.
Smaller employers who do not pay into the apprenticeship levy will share the cost of training and assessment with the government called 'co-investment'. The employer will be liable for a contribution of 5%, the government will pay 95% up to the maximum funding band.
How to set up your apprenticeship service system: Apprenticeship Service set up
The employer must formally submit an expression of interest to the University of Lincoln with full details of employees who they are nominating.
The eligibility criteria is aligned to the ESFA funding rules. An apprentice must meet the following:
Next Steps
For the Employer
For the Employee
Employees interested in the Senior Leader Apprenticeship will need to gain prior approval from their employer. Once confirmed, the employer will need to submit an expression of interest.
Start Your Journey
Progression Route
Top-up to the full MBA
Obtaining an MBA can provide apprentices with a broader skill set and a deeper understanding of business principles, further equipping them for success in their chosen field. The additional cost for the MBA Leadership top-up is 3,300.
Contact us
Lincoln International Business SchoolUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN5 7AT
 sla@lincoln.ac.uk


