Live Link-Up | Applicants and Offer Holders | University of LincolnLive Question and Answer Sessions
Atthe University of Lincoln, our students come first.
We want you to have all the information you need prior to joiningour university community. Designed with convenience in mind, ouronline Live Link-upsessions offer you the chance to participate in friendly, chatroom-style events where you are able to ask questions about a range of topics that relate to anything you might wish to know about joining the University of Lincoln. You can pose your questions directly to our team of expert staff and receive answers back in real time.
s no need to pre-register and you can get involved by simply visiting this web page on the date and time of each event, where the chat function will appear. Youare able to take part in the live and interactive chats by using a web browser from a desktop, tablet or mobile device.", 'Live Q+As
If you are considering joining the University of Lincoln on one of our courses, join us for one of our Q&A sessions. You will be able to speak to our team of advisors who will be happy to answer any of your questions, whether you want to know more about the application process, need advice about fees, funding, and scholarships, have any questions about our accommodation, or simply want to find out more about student life at Lincoln.
Your next event:
Medicine Live Link-up: Monday 08 October 2018
Find out all you need to know about the University of Nottingham Lincoln Medical School in partnership with the University of Lincoln.
The Medical School was established in 2018 with the specific aim of enhancing recruitment of doctors to Lincolnshire. Our first students will start in September 2019 and they will follow the University of Nottingham&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rsquo;s medicine curriculum, enhanced with a Lincoln/Lincolnshire flavour.
Please feel free to contact us with any queries: medicine@lincoln.ac.uk.

Can We Help?
Our friendly Enquiries Team is here to answer your queries outside of our Live Link-up Q&A sessions. If there's anything you'd like to know about being a student at Lincoln, whether that's how to apply for funding, what our accommodation is like or anything else, please contactenquiries@lincoln.ac.ukor use ourContacts pageto locate specific service contacts.



