EU Food Heroes project  | University of LincolnIn this section
EU Food Heroes Project
Food Heroes project focuses on innovative food entrepreneurs working on the reduction of food losses in the neglected first parts of the food chain. The project aims to reduce food losses and food waste in the first parts of the food chain by developing new solutions for waste reduction and higher value uses. The project methodology will involve a transnational, cross-sectoral and co- creative approach; towards investigating and proposing strategies that will support waste reduction in three main sectors (fish, meat and fruit and vegetables sectors).
The core element of the whole project will involve developing, testing and implementing 15 innovative solutions, involving at least 120 SMEs with innovative technologies and added value solutions in North West Europe.
The University of Lincolns involvement focuses on waste prevention in the fruit and vegetable sector. They are delivering a series of workshops designed specifically for the Agri-Food Sector focusing on the initiatives that will support fruit and vegetable waste reduction in the first part of the food supply chain. The University of Lincoln will measure their project results in reducing food waste. The UK county of Lincolnshire houses the largest concentration of companies growing, packing and processing fruit and vegetables.

Project Team
Dr Chris Bishop, Professor Anne Chick, Dr Oluseyi Moses Ajayi, and Richard Turner.

Project Funding
EU Funding: 3.42m.

Find out more about the EU Food Heroes Project.


Lincoln School of Design | College of Arts Social Sciences and Humanities | University of LincolnLincoln School of Design
Welcome
Design and the creative professions can offer incredibly rewarding career paths, where you can make an individual creative contribution and significantly influence the outcome of projects you work on.
Lincoln School of Design offers a dynamic learning space where you can explore your creativity in an engaging and supportive environment, learning from, and working alongside, academics who are experienced practitioners and industry professionals.
With an innovative, responsible, and human centred approach, some of our graduates have gone on to become leading practitioners in the creative industries, responding to the worlds societal and environmental global challenges.
Well help you develop the skills and confidence for an exciting and rewarding career where you can turn your imagination into meaningful change.
Associate Professor Stewart Bibby
Acting Head of Lincoln School of Design
Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate courses available in the Lincoln School of Design.
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Courses
Take a look at our range of postgraduate taught and research programmes within the Lincoln School of Design.
Postgraduate Courses
Research
Find out about exciting research taking place in the Lincoln School of Design.
See Our Research
School Staff
Find staff members within the Lincoln School of Design.
View School Staff List
Facilities
The University of Lincoln has a comprehensive range of facilities designed to provide a supportive environment for creative practitioners. Students have regular access to workshops, labs, studios, and industry-standard equipment, as well as highly knowledgeable technicians. This environment can help students to develop their knowledge and skills, and complements our purpose-built design studios.
Adobe Creative Cloud Suite Software
Design students can access Adobe Creative Cloud suite software, which is available in all iMac computer suites across the University.
Art Shop
The University of Lincolns Art Shop stocks a wide range of art and design materials from specialist suppliers. Items such as sketchbooks, specialist papers, foam boards and tools are all available to purchase at reduced prices.
Audio Recording and Editing
Book Arts Space
Computer Aided Design and Manufacturing (CAD/CAM)
Fabric Print Specialist Room
Media Loans and Editing Suites
LinkedIn Learning
MakerLab Workshops
Multi-materials Workshops
Students can use an array of machinery and hand tools for the cutting, shaping and general fabrication of woods and metals. Laser cutting machines enable work with materials from fine papers and card through to soft and hard woods, veneers, acrylic plastic, leather, fabrics, MDF, plywood and stencil plastics. The rapid prototyping area is equipped with manufacturing 3D printers which are used to create 3D physical models.
Photography Studio and Workshops
Printmaking Studios
The printmaking studios provide facilities for traditional and contemporary printmaking processes. The studios cater for a comprehensive range of techniques including screen printing, relief printing, and monotype and letterpress.
Sculpture and 3D Workshop
Our Sculpture and 3D workshop allows mold making and casting in a variety of materials from plaster and wax to specialist silicone rubbers and epoxy resins. Our experienced technicians can guide students through many processes such as how to carry out life casting, making work directly from the body, or woodwork and clay for making masters, prototypes or even finished pieces. 
Specialist Printing
A range of specialist and large format printers are housed in the Peter de Wint Building. Students can print on a range of specialist papers up to A0+ size, as well as using the large format, hi-resolution, scanning, vinyl cutting and Risograph printing facilities.
Technical Team
Our technical facilities are managed by a team of more than 30 highly experienced technical experts. Many of the team are practising artists, designers and makers, with years of relevant knowledge and a passion for supporting students learning.


Research | University of LincolnIn this section
Research in the Lincoln School of Design
Colleagues in the Lincoln School of Design carry out research in a rich variety of ways and into a broad range of subjects. Staff carry out both pedagogic research, which informs how we teach and enables students to learn, and more academic research concerning a wide range of topics; from flood protection to council estate design, from product obsolescence to exhibition design. Researchers write books and academic articles, they create performances, they make different kinds of stuff and they work with non-academic partners of various kinds.
In addition to research, colleagues in the Lincoln School of Design engage in a wide range of activities including various types of teaching, diverse professional practice, wide-ranging outreach, and business enterprise projects. Our professional practice activities, for example, are diverse and include book art, surf culture, printmaking and visual anthropology. Our outreach activities and business projects are also characterised by diversity, depth and breadth.
Find out more about our research.
Research in the Lincoln School of Design aims tocontinually improve the:
Research themes and clusters
Social Design
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
Creativity and Cultural Industries

Research Students
We have a growing population of around 20 full-time and part-time UK and international research students. They are supervised by staff who are internationally recognised as experts in their field and have access to world class facilities to complete their studies.
MPhil / PhD Students
Rod AdamsExplaining an interactive relationship between humans and the interior work environments they inhabit
Monisola AdesinaSocial Innovation, a methodological approach to flood mitigation in East Lindsey, Lincolnshire
Julie BushThe life and work of William Logsdail (1859 - 1944)
s contribution and of the contestation of his authorship 1810-1820", 'Cilla EisnerCollage Grids: Generative principles and metaphor
Emmanuel EstenameThe Mobile Watering Hole: The design and development of a multimedia prototype resource on mobile phones to support the teaching of plastographic printmaking in Nigerian higher education using Constructive Design / Action Research (AR) methodologies (prototyping and collaborative action research)
Amanda HuffordVisual Slang: Grammar of digitally mediated architectural images
Geoff LeeAn investigation of the Ceramics Blague
Yuen Fong LingA Body of Relations: Reconfiguring the life class
Annie MorradRhytham and improvisation in Contemporary Art and music practices
Kezhen WangA decade of innovation in Chinese jewellery design education (2003-2013)
Will WilsonCatalysing Participatory Social Learning: reformulating the design process as means to engage all parties in making conscious and informed behavioural changes towards more sustainable practices, particularly in respect to domestic energy use
Rukia XuArt and text collisions in contemporary Chinese Art
David YoungerTheme park theory
Alison FairhurstEuropean textiles and leather shoes from 1700 - 1800 and their conservation
Michael HealeyThe Scottish colourists and their influence in contemporary Scottish paintings
MA by Research Students
Clementine MonroArchitectural decay. Communicating the physical encounter
John RevellInteraction design by hacking
Lincoln School of Designstaff are also active in theCentre for Conservation and Cultural Heritage ResearchandEnglish Research Groups


Social Design Research | University of LincolnIn this section
Social Design Research
A focus on human-centred, participatory, collaborative, and social innovation methods that support social, environmental and economic well-being. The research members aim for their research outcomes to be responsive, sensitive, informed, relevant, rigorous, and impactful.
Social design is a broad term which can include the following:


co-creation' and participation between designers and non-designers. Indeed, social design rests on an expanded definition of both design and 'designers' and it is one which considers objects of design that other forms of design research have regarded as being outside of the direct concerns of design; behaviour, social policies, social processes. This expanded scope has allowed social design, and social design research, to address 'big' societal questions; ageing, health, waste, pollution and climate change, governance, and so on. Furthermore, design is seen as being able to liaise between, broker, bring together other specialists in policy and planning and community development especially. Social innovation and social entrepreneurship are also highlighted as key features of social design.", 'In terms of social design research in the Lincoln School of Design, we can think about research outputs and projects which involve non-academic partners, clients and groups outside of the University and at local and regional levels especially.
The cross-disciplinary nature of the research means that its members come from different research areas and backgrounds. Our current members include:


About our research | University of LincolnIn this section
About our research
Despite the range of activities and interests pursued, we at the Lincoln School of Design argue there is a common theme that ties research, professional practice, outreach and business together and that is 'socially engaged creative practice'. What does that mean?
It means two things. The School of Design is committed to both involving others in our full range of activities and to improve the lives and life chances of those with whom we engage. This might be 'social design' research which actively encourages participation and co-creation in the design process; we seek to include those who will be affected by design in the design of those things that will affect them. For example, professor Anne Chicks research focuses on designing a more inclusive experience for blind and visually impaired exhibition visitors. Socially engaged creative practice also involves outreach activities, for example, working directly with 'Design and Technology' secondary school teachers in order to build stronger paths for students to get to university to study design subjects. It includes inviting school children into the university to explore and experience creativity through, for example, the Saturday Club and the Big Draw events. And, of course the university emphasis on 'student as producer' has always fitted comfortably with what happens in a design school studio culture. Students are always the co-producers of the experience we create and of the designed 'things' which come from creative practice. Creativity is social and our activities reflect that.
Consequently, as academics and creative practitioners ourselves, we are always looking for connections between our various activities, especially our capacity to build research. We seek to build this research out of professional practice and professional practice from research, outreach from research and professional practice, enterprise from research and so on. As a result, much of our school's activity is driven by projects which include some combination of research, professional practice, outreach and enterprise. This then leads to clusters of activity around a theme, for example, creativity, creative industries and pedagogic research on creativity. Where the research around a theme develops particularly strongly and builds a compelling momentum, it is useful to form a research cluster to co-ordinate activities including bidding for research funding, building research impact beyond the university, and providing a focus for the esteem that research can generate. For example, we have a 'Critical Heritage and Place Consumption research cluster that does just that. Other themes of interest and activity may be better served by a looser grouping of contributing colleagues, as the topic in question leads to developments in professional practice, outreach, enterprise as well as research. For example, we have a number of colleagues researching social design, co-creation and community engagement.



Design and Curation of Inclusive Exhibitions | University of LincolnIn this section
Design and Curation of Inclusive Temporary Exhibitions
This research project investigates how to inclusively design and curate a non-permanent design exhibition in a large regional gallery (the National Centre for Craft and Design, UK), focusing on intellectual access for blind and partially sighted visitors. There are approximately two million people in the UK who are registered with sight loss. Older people are increasingly likely to experience sight loss and they are the fastest growing visitor group (65-74 years) to UK museums and galleries.
Professor Anne Chick collaborated with various stakeholders and tailored the co-creation research to the specific needs of the blind and partially sighted participants. The resulting multi-sensory non-permanent exhibition (27 January  23 April 2017) is available to view on theresearch project website.

Acknowledgements
The author would like to acknowledge the contribution of the anonymous participants and NCCD gallery assistants, Midlands Regional RNIB Centre, Bryony Windsor, Zoe Partington, Colin Webb, Arnaud Dechelle, and Kevin Hallsworth.

Project Funding
This research was funded by the Arts Council England under Grants for the Arts, National Centre for Craft & Design, and The Big Lottery under the DRILL fund.



Middlefield Lane Estate  | Critical Heritage and Place Consumption | University of LincolnThis research project aimed to:

Oral history has been used torecord residents memories of life on the estate.You can read more about this on Ian Waites blog: Instances of a Changed Society.

The project had a number of outputs, including:

The project aimed toreconceptualise Middlefield Lane as a mutable place not always in decline (and thus not inevitably so in the future); develop skills, connections, outlooks and aspirations to help the community contextualise its present and build for a better future; and champion council housing in a period lacking good, affordable, rented housing.?

Project Team
Dr Ian Waites and Professor Carenza Lewis.

Project Funding
AHRC Collected Communities Fund.




Creativity and Cultural Industries | Research | University of LincolnA Dual Approach
This research has a dual focus. Firstly, it involves research into broad theories of creativity - the different conceptions of creativity which include the personal-centred approaches of neuroscience and psychology, relationships-centred approaches of sociology and anthropology, and wider context-centred approaches of economics, urban studies and Web studies. However, this largely theoretical research is strongly connected to more applied aspects focussed upon teaching creativity and helping to develop professional creative practices. The second focus concerns broad social and cultural analyses of the creative and cultural industries  how various creative ecologies emerge, how informal creative hubs and networks operate, how cultural policy might best approach and work with these more informal creative spaces.
Some of the key questions which animate this research are:

New Ways of Working
A wellspring of our shared research agenda is the belief that orthodox assumptions about creativity flowing from isolated individuals is lacking. Our research into theories of creativity tend to move through more social and cultural conceptions to take into account creative relationships between people, and between people, their places and other broader contextual features. Our research into the cultural industries tends to focus upon the inter-relationships between independent, commercial and public aspects of broad creative ecologies.
The centrality of this more social and relational conception also informs what we do in terms of concrete applications of our research for pedagogy and developing professional creative practice for enterprise and entrepreneurial discussions.
Researchers often seek novel ways of delivering research to a wide range of contexts, in ways suitable to different audiences. As well publishing research outputs in the orthodox manner, our members facilitate creative play sessions; seek to advocate for drawing and image-making into research outputs; translate academic research into engaging and practical outcomes for use in creative practices;
These approaches involve working with a wide range of partners including creative businesses and local government, running publically funded programmes for different aspects of the community at large, and working with Schools and Colleges.
The Creativity and Cultural Industries research is cross-disciplinary and draws researchers from broad research topics and subjects. Our currentresearchers include:
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
s traditional concerns with conservation and restoration.", 'Critical heritage, as a discipline, reconceptualises heritage by paying attention to themes such as power, identity, economic development and conflict, and by engaging with other areas of critical enquiry such as memory studies, creative tourism, feminist theory, material culture studies, and cultural geography.
Find out More



Undergraduate Courses | Lincoln School of Design | University of Lincoln


Postgraduate Programmes | Lincoln School of Design | University of Lincoln


Critical Heritage and Place Consumption | Research | University of LincolnPlaces, Pasts, and Traditions in Contemporary Life
CHPC Research focuses on the notion of critical heritage, which considers places, pasts and traditions in contemporary life alongside heritages traditional concerns with conservation and restoration.Critical heritage, as a discipline, reconceptualises heritage by paying attention to themes such as power, identity, economic development and conflict, and by engaging with other areas of critical enquiry such as memory studies, creative tourism, feminist theory, material culture studies, and cultural geography.
In particular, research focuses on design practices within the context of heritage, and aims to foster collaborative projects and discussions on the interaction between tradition and contemporary society, and how this is visually expressed. This includes investigating new emerging patterns of space/place, exhibition design, and place consumption (amongst others).
A Cross-disciplinary Approach
The cross-disciplinary nature of the research means that its members come from different research areas and backgrounds. Our current members include:
Creativity and Cultural Industries
This research has a dual focus: it examines broad theories and conceptions of creativity, including personal-centred approaches of neuroscience and psychology, relationships-centred approaches of sociology and anthropology, and wider context-centred approaches of economics, urban studies and web studies.
The second is concerned with broad social and cultural analyses of the creative and cultural industries, how various creative ecologies emerge, how informal creative hubs and networks operate, and how cultural policy might best approach and work with these more informal creative spaces.
Find out More



School Staff | Lincoln School of Design | University of LincolnLincoln School of Design Staff
Lincoln School of Design Staff


