Facilities | School of Pharmacy | University of LincolnOur Facilities 
Joseph Bank Laboratories
The Joseph Banks Laboratories and Minster House are a purpose-built science facility, developed by a collaborative team including teaching and research staff, estates and ICT professionals, architects and engineers.
The design integrates research, teaching, and social space into a single, connected learning landscape. Undergraduates, postgraduates, and staff share formal and informal spaces distributed throughout the facilities.
The Maltby Suite
The Maltby Suite is a dedicated pharmacy teaching suite combining, a flexible pharmacy teaching and learning area, a mock pharmacy and drug store, a medicines suite, and six consultation rooms.
Virtual Tour of Joseph Banks Laboratories


Research | School of Pharmacy | University of LincolnWelcome
The School of Pharmacy has two major research groups:
- Drug Discovery, Design, and Delivery; aims to discover and design new drugs and develop innovative approaches for drug delivery.
- Clinical Pharmacy and Practice; aims to strengthen healthcare collaboration with research from various healthcare disciplines.
If you are an aspiring postgraduate student for the School of Pharmacy, and have a keen interest in one of the fields outlined below, please contact our Postgraduate Tutor, Dr Emma Wright onemwright@lincoln.ac.uk

Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group
This groupbuilds upon expertise within the School of Pharmacy and the College of Health and Science as a whole.
Read More

Clinical Pharmacy and Practice Research Group
Researchers within this group aim to foster multidisciplinary collaboration between healthcare professionals.
Read More


Drug Discovery, Design, and Delivery  | Research | University of LincolnMedicine For the Future
TheDrug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Groupbuilds upon expertise within the School of Pharmacy and the College of Health and Science as a whole. Our work covers pre-clinical aspects of the drug discovery and development pipeline from the identification of novel drug targets, the design of new and improved drugs and antibiotics, to the development of improved methods of delivery.
Our aims are to:
- Identify new drug targets
- Design and discover new drugs
- Develop innovative approaches for drug delivery
Our multidisciplinary group includes organic chemists, structural biologists, pharmacologists, and pharmaceutical scientists who work collaboratively to utilise state-of-the-art technologies and methodologies. We have strong links with the pharmaceutical industry and the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, the Lincoln Institute of Rural Health, the National Centre for Food Manufacturing, and the Schools of Engineering, Chemistry, and Life Sciences.
Group Members
Postgraduate Opportunities
If you are an aspiring postgraduate student for the School of Pharmacy and have a keen interest in one of the fields outlined above, please email our postgraduate tutor, Dr Emma Wright, using the button below. 


School of Pharmacy | College of Health and Science | University of LincolnWelcome to the School of Pharmacy
s degrees in Applied Pharmaceutical Science andPharmaceutical Science with Business Management.", 'The philosophy of the School of Pharmacy is to produce passionate pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists who are adept in addressing many of the major healthcare challenges that we will all face in the 2020s and beyond.
Pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists have the potential to forge strong and unique bridges between science and healthcare to improve health outcomes, built on the back of developing good relationships with patients, healthcare practitioners and the pharmaceutical industry.
s School of Pharmacy", 'Undergraduate Courses
Explore our undergraduate courses in MPharm Pharmacy, BSc Pharmaceutical Sciences, MSci Applied Pharmaceutical Sciences, and MSci Pharmaceutical Sciences with Business.
Science Foundation Year
Discover our alternative route to entry, with the Pharmacy Science Foundation Year which is designed to open up an exciting world of opportunities for students who do not meet our standard entry requirements.
Postgraduate Courses
Explore our postgraduate taught and research courses available in Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists
The University of Lincoln has been provisionally approved by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) to offer this Independent Prescribing course for three years. This short course enables experienced pharmacists to build on their existing knowledge as experts in medicines and acquire additional skills and competencies, particularly in relation to history taking and decision making.
s School of Pharmacy", 'Facilities
Teaching in the School of Pharmacy is delivered in purpose-built facilities, providing innovative spaces for study and research. Explore our science-specific facilities used to teach our next generation of pharmacists including the Joseph Banks Laboratories.
Careers
Career prospects for pharmacists are excellent in terms of taking responsibility for optimising the discovery, development, assessment and safe and effective use of medicines in society. Discover your future careers after studying Pharmacy at the University of Lincoln. 
Accreditation
Our MPharm Pharmacy degree course at the University of Lincoln has received full accreditation until 2023/4. This means our graduates can progress to their pre-registration training, after which they can register as a pharmacist.
School Staff
Find out more about the School of Pharmacy staff members and how to contact them.
Discover our Research and Commercial Services
Research
School of Pharmacy staff are working at the forefront of new discoveries in the sector. Learn more about their research in Drug Discovery, Design, and Delivery, and Clinical Pharmacy and Practice.
Commercial Services
JBL Science is a commercial research organisation based at the University of Lincoln. Whether you are an emerging biotech company or a large player in the pharmaceutical industry, JBL Science can partner with you in the various stages of the pipeline toward the discovery of the next medicines.
Athena SWAN
Learn more about our commitment in the School of Pharmacy to promoting and advancing womens careers in higher education and research in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medicine.
Health and Social Care
You may also be interested in one of our Health and social Care programmes
Connect with Us


College of Health and Science, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool Campus, Lincoln, LN6 7TS
sciencemarketing@lincoln.ac.uk


Accreditation | School of Pharmacy | University of LincolnProfessional Accreditation
The General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) is the regulator for pharmacy in Great Britain. It is the accrediting body for pharmacy education and sets the standards for the initial education and training of pharmacists.The MPharm degree course at the University of Lincoln has now received full accreditation until 2023/4. Our graduates can progress to their pre-registration training, after which they can register as a pharmacist if they meet all of the stipulated professional criteria set by the GPhC.Further information can be found on the GPhC website (www.pharmacyregulation.org) together with accreditation reports from all of the Schools of Pharmacy.
Successful completion of an accredited MPharm degree is not a guarantee of a pre-registration place for any student.


Undergraduate Courses | School of Pharmacy | University of LincolnSchool of Pharmacy Undergraduate Courses



Postgraduate Programmes | School of Pharmacy | University of LincolnSchool of Pharmacy Postgraduate Programmes



Clinical Pharmacy and Practice | Research | University of LincolnStrengthening Healthcare Collaborations
The Clinical Pharmacy and Practice Research Group aims to enhance multidisciplinary collaboration between healthcare professionals from the Lincoln School of Pharmacy and healthcare researchers from across the wider University.
Our group provides opportunities for students to develop their research skills and conduct a specific lab-based or practice related clinical research project. You can contact any member of our research group members in the drop-down menu below to find out more about the types of projects and opportunities currently on offer.


Careers | School of Pharmacy | University of LincolnExploringCareer Opportunities
Career prospects for pharmacists are excellent in terms of taking responsibility for optimising the discovery, development, assessment, and safe and effective use of medicines in society.
Pharmacists are to be found within the pharmaceutical industry and regulatory bodies, undertaking a variety of roles such as research and development, or regulatory and drug safety roles. Increasingly pharmacists are to be found working in primary care, often as prescribing pharmacists with general practitioners. Within hospital pharmacy many pharmacists work as full time clinical pharmacists, providing direct care to patients and may achieve a consultant rank. Within community pharmacy practice, the role of the pharmacist is continually expanding to include medication reviews, early diagnosis, and public health initiatives, particularly in healthy living pharmacies.Many pharmacy graduates undertake postgraduate qualifications, such as diplomas, professional doctorates, and PhDs by research.In addition the transferable skills such as communication skills, problem solving and decision-making skills are valuable in many other spheres of employment.A degree in pharmaceutical science might lead to a job in one of the big pharmaceutical companies, but there are also many opportunities in a myriad of smaller biotechnology companies in the UK, Europe and even further afield. In addition to a science-based career, a degree in pharmaceutical science may open the door to sales and marketing, project management or programme management, quality assurance, or in drug regulation and safety.You may wish to further your studies to MSc, MPhil, or PhD level, and if you decide to do so, we hope to see you back at Lincoln.

Work-based placements
MPharm students will have the opportunity to undertake placements within hospital, community, primary care and industrial pharmacy; these will be integrated to support the students learning and development. As part of the placement program, students will have their own practicing pharmacist mentor for the duration of their studies. For students on the BSc Pharmaceutical Science program this will include visits to the pharmaceutical industry as well as visiting lecturers from the industry.
Professional and Industry Links
The School has developed extensive links with hospital and community pharmacy and with the pharmaceutical industry in the region and on a national and international level. An external advisory group, which include patient representatives, have and continue to provide guidance on curriculum development and teaching for the MPharm.For Pharmaceutical Science, there is a Curriculum Advisory Board with representatives from the pharmaceutical and associated industries, to ensure are graduates are industry ready.



Connect with Us


College of Health and Science, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool Campus, Lincoln, LN6 7TS
sciencemarketing@lincoln.ac.uk


Independent Prescribing Guidance Notes | School of Pharmacy | University of LincolnIndependent Prescribing for Pharmacists
Short Course Guidance Notes
Guidance Notes for Applicants and Designated Prescribing Practitioners (DPPs)
The University of Lincoln is provisionally approved by the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) to offer the independent prescribing course for 3 years, with a monitoring event taking place after completion of the first cohort of students.
Pharmacists play a vital role in delivering care and helping people to maintain and improve their health, safety and, wellbeing. An increasingly central role for pharmacists is prescribing in settings where prescribing has not necessarily happened before. By doing this, pharmacists can play an important part in helping people to take their medicines safely and effectively. Being an independent prescriber means that you can prescribe a medicine without needing to consult another prescriber first (GPhC, 2022a, 4).
Pharmacists who are already qualified, (or those who are due to complete their MPharm programme before summer 2026) cannot prescribe on registration but must take an additional course of education and training to prepare them for this role. Courses are part-time and are run by universities.
Following a public consultation exercise during 2021, the GPhC has recently amended its application criteria for Independent Prescribing (IP) programmes. The Chief Pharmaceutical Officers in all four countries of the UK have set out a clear desire and policy to:
The two revised application criteria for free-standing courses, (c and d in bold type), together with some important additional information for applicants, appear below under Entry Requirements.
The level of study for pharmacist independent prescriber courses is Masters level, as defined in national qualifications frameworks. The trainee prescriber must evidence their achievement of all of the learning outcomes included in Part 1 of the Standards for the education and training of pharmacist independent prescribers (GPhC, 2022a, 6-9). All courses must include a minimum of 26 structured study days and 90 hours of supervised learning in practice (GPhC, 2022a, 6).
Learning in practice time is when pharmacists independent prescribers in training practise and develop their clinical, diagnostic and prescribing skills under the supervision of other healthcare professionals. This includes their designated prescribing practitioner (who is responsible for signing off a pharmacist independent prescriber in training as being a competent prescriber) (GPhC, 2022a,11).
Pharmacist independent prescribers in training must pass all summative assessments before being signed off. This being the case, and on safety grounds, compensation or condonation are not allowed on courses for pharmacist independent prescribers in training (GPhC, 2022a, 17).
Once a pharmacist has successfully completed their course, they will receive their Practice Certificate in Independent Prescribing award from the University of Lincoln and can apply to the GPhC for an annotation as an Independent Prescriber to their entry in the GPhCs register. The annotation is a public record that they can practise as an independent prescriber (GPhC, 2022a, 5).
The entry requirements for the pharmacist independent prescribing course are that:
a) Applicants are registered as a pharmacist with the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) or, in Northern Ireland, with the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (PSNI) (GPhC, 2022a, 10).
b) Applicants are in good standing with the GPhC and/or PSNI and any other healthcare regulator with which they are registered (GPhC, 2022a, 10).
c) Applicants must have relevant experience in a UK pharmacy setting and be able to recognise, understand and articulate the skills and attributes required by a prescriber. This experience and awareness will act as the basis of their prescribing practice whilst training (GPhC, 2022a, 12).
As stated above, applicants must be able to provide examples of relevant experience in a UK pharmacy setting. An applicants experience must be meaningful and highlight outcomes that evidence both significant and positive impacts on patient care.
Experience could have been obtained, for example:
Examples of relevant experience may include, but are not limited to:
The examples given above are intended to demonstrate the wide ranging and unique nature of relevant pharmacy experience that can contribute to a pharmacists overall readiness to enrol on an accredited independent prescribing course. There is not a specific length of time that will determine this. It is the overall breadth and range of relevant experience that is important (GPhC, 2022b, 3).
You will be requested to provide your CV as part of our application process at the University of Lincoln School of Pharmacy and to provide a written narrative (of no more than 800 words) summarising how your experience within the roles or placements detailed within your CV have prepared you to undertake your training as a pharmacist independent prescriber. Your narrative must include the following:
As stated within entry requirement c) above, you must be able to recognise, understand, and articulate the skills and attributes required by a prescriber.
The application process at the School of Pharmacy requires you to provide a short reflection to demonstrate how your personal experience has strengthened your understanding of the role of the prescriber and has supported how you recognise, understand, and articulate the skills and attributes of a prescriber.
It is important to note that many of the skills required by a prescriber are the same as those of a non-prescriber. Your Standards for Pharmacy Professionals (GPhC, 2017) should, therefore, underpin and inform your application. There are nine standards that every pharmacy professional is accountable for meeting. They describe how safe and effective care is delivered through person-centred professionalism.
The standards are a statement of what people expect from pharmacy professionals and reflect what pharmacy professionals have told the GPhC that they expect of themselves and their colleagues. The meaning of each of the standards is explained, and there are examples of the types of attitudes and behaviours that pharmacy professionals should demonstrate, and therefore, are consistent also for prescribing.
The Standards for the initial education and training of pharmacists (GPhC, 2021b) have determined key learning outcomes that a trainee pharmacist would be expected to demonstrate upon registration in relation to being a prescriber, and the GPhC expects applicants to understand these and their importance when prescribing medicines. These also align to the Prescribing Competency Framework (RPS, 2021) (see below).
These are:
The Competency Framework for all Prescribers (RPS, 2021) describes the demonstrable knowledge, skills, characteristics, qualities and behaviours for a safe and effective prescribing role and sets out what good prescribing looks like. It is a generic framework that can be used by any prescriber at any point in their career, regardless of their professional background. It should, however, be contextualised to reflect different areas of practice, levels of expertise, and settings.
There are ten competencies within the framework which are presented in two domains and describe the knowledge, skill, behaviour, activity or outcome that prescribers should demonstrate.
Domain One - the Consultation:
This domain looks at the competencies that the prescriber should demonstrate during the consultation. Domain one contains the following competencies:
1. Assess the patient
2. Identify evidence-based treatment options available for clinical decision making
3. Present options and reach a shared decision
4. Prescribe
5. Provide information
6. Monitor and review
Domain Two - Prescribing Governance:
This domain focuses on the competencies that the prescriber should demonstrate with respect to prescribing governance. Domain two contains the following competencies:
7. Prescribe safely
8. Prescribe professionally
9. Improve prescribing practice
10. Prescribe as part of a team
Each of these competencies contains several supporting statements related to the prescriber role, which describe the activity or outcome that the prescriber should actively and routinely demonstrate.
The GPhC would expect applicants to have a broad understanding of this framework and use this as the basis for recognising, understanding, and articulating the skills of a prescriber specifically. This, alongside their understanding of the standards for pharmacy professionals and consideration given to scope of practice, is fundamental to confirm that an applicant has the appropriate knowledge to commence as a pharmacist independent prescriber in training.
Based on the above, the GPhC suggests some notable examples of the skills and attributes required by a prescriber that may include, but are not limited to:
Applicants should be able to demonstrate a thorough understanding of how their personal experience has strengthened their understanding of the role of prescriber and has supported how they recognise, understand, and articulate the skills of a prescriber.
This will be unique to each applicant, however, this in combination with their relevant experience in a UK pharmacy setting should be considered by the educational institution on an individual basis, to gain assurance that they are suitable candidates to commence on an independent prescribing course (GPhC, 2022b, 5).
For the purposes of developing their independent prescribing practice applicants must identify an area of clinical or therapeutic practice on which to base their learning (GPhC, 2022a, 10).
Pharmacist independent prescribers in training will need to identify an area of clinical or therapeutic practice on which to base their learning and develop their independent prescribing practice. This does not necessarily have to align to previous experience or a specific area of competence (GPhC, 2022b, 5).
The application process at the University of Lincoln therefore requires you to describe the clinical or therapeutic area in which you intend to base your learning and to give the rationale for your choice.
An understanding of scope of practice, the activities a healthcare professional carries out within their professional role, is fundamental. The healthcare professional should understand that they must have the required training, knowledge, skills, and experience to deliver prescribing activities lawfully, safely, and effectively.
Scope of practice should be informed by the individuals professional judgement as well as, for example, regulatory standards, the professional leadership bodys position, employer guidance, and evidence-based documents and guidance from other relevant organisations, such as NHS guidelines or journals. The identified area of clinical or therapeutic practice can be either specialist or generalist (GPhC, 2022b, 5).
Once a pharmacist has successfully completed the training, they can apply for an annotation to their entry on the GPhCs register. The annotation is a public record that they can practise as an independent prescriber. Pharmacists should, however, only prescribe within their area of competence upon annotation.
It is accepted that, provided the pharmacist independent prescriber expands their scope of practice subsequently, they can prescribe accordingly.
d) Applicants have a designated prescribing practitioner who has agreed to supervise their learning in practice (GPhC, 2022a, 10). The applicants designated prescribing practitioner must be a registered healthcare professional in Great Britain or Northern Ireland with legal independent prescribing rights, who is suitably experienced and qualified to carry out this supervisory role, and who has demonstrated CPD or revalidation relevant to this role. 
Although an applicant may be supervised by more than one person, only one prescriber must be the designated prescribing practitioner. The designated prescribing practitioner is the person who will certify that successful pharmacists are competent to practise as independent prescribers (GPhC, 2022a, 11).
Applicants must provide evidence that they meet the GPhCs criteria for eligibility to access this educational programme. It is the responsibility of the University of Lincoln, as the course provider, to evaluate all applications and to assess the suitability of pharmacists already on the register to enter training (GPhC, 2021, 15). You will therefore be required to evidence the quality of your patient-facing experience as part of your application for this short course.
In addition, the School of Pharmacy will act in full collaboration with our practice partners by ensuring that the relevant parties contributing towards your application for training as a pharmacist independent prescriber are appropriately consulted, in relation to your suitability for this training.
You will need to have written confirmation (via completion of the relevant application forms) from:
a) your employer/line manager (where applicable) of their support for you to undertake the Independent Prescribing for Pharmacists short course. Your employer will be required to confirm that you have identified an area of clinical or therapeutic practice on which to base your learning.
b) a Designated Prescribing Practitioner (DPP) who meets the eligibility criteria for supervision of trainee independent prescribers, and who has agreed to provide supervision of your learning in practice for a minimum of 90 hours (GPhC, 2022a, 6). Your nominated DPP will be required to confirm that you have identified an area of clinical or therapeutic practice on which to base your learning.
Please note that any places offered on this short course will be subject to all of the GPhC and University of Lincoln entry requirements detailed above being fully met. Further, you will not be able to commence your Short Course if any of these requirements remain outstanding.
Trainee prescribers have historically undertaken a period of learning in practice to consolidate and contextualise their academic learning. Until recent regulatory changes, medically qualified doctors have carried out the vital role of supervising, educating, and assessing trainee prescribers in practice. The title for this role was formerly Designated Medical Practitioner (DMP).
However, since 2018/19, some experienced non-medical prescribers (NMPs) have now become eligible to fulfil this essential role. The Royal Pharmaceutical Society (RPS) published guidance following these changes to reflect the expansion of this role to include NMPs, adopting the term Designated Prescribing Practitioner (DPP) for all roles that "oversee, support and assess the competence of non-medical prescribing trainees in collaboration with academic and workplace partners during the period of learning in practice." (RPS, 2019, 3). Medically qualified doctors continue to be included within the new title of DPP.
The role of DPP is a significant and important one as, at the end of their short course and providing all aspects of the assessment strategy are completed successfully, the DPP is responsible for signing off a trainee as being fit to practice as an independent prescriber (GPhC, 2022a, 11).
Eligibility for the DPP Role
A prospective DPP must be registered, and in good standing with their professional regulator(s). All non- medical prescribers (NMPs) undertaking the role should have the necessary annotation for a prescriber as required by their regulator (RPS, 2019, 4; GPhC, 2022a, 10).
This means that the DPP must be a qualified Independent Prescriber (V300) or medical prescriber with legal independent prescribing rights, not a supplementary prescriber or specialist community nurse prescriber. The DPP must be suitably experienced to carry out this supervisory role and have demonstrated Continuing Professional Development (CPD) or revalidation relevant to the independent prescribing role (GPhC, 2022a, 10).
General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) requirements: Prospective designated prescribing practitioners (DPPs) must have:
Course providers are required to have appropriate mechanisms for ensuring that designated prescribing practitioners are fit to be the supervisors of pharmacist independent prescribers in training (GPhC, 2022a, 17). The School of Pharmacy is therefore required to evaluate the suitability of each nominated DPP, and for this reason, we ask that you provide additional information about your independent prescribing experience during the application process.
It is recommended that Non-Medical Prescribers (NMPs) and Independent Prescribers (IPs) complete the training for the role of Practice Assessor, or equivalent training, where this is provided by your organisation.
If you are a nominated DPP, and have any questions about this, or would appreciate some assistance with the completion of the application form, please email our administrative team in the first instance, who will ensure that an appropriate member of the team responds to your enquiry: pharmacy@lincoln.ac.uk.
Royal Pharmaceutical Council (RPS): Prescribing Competency Framework Requirements
The expectation of any health professional practitioner acting in the DPP role is the ability to demonstrate they meet all competencies within the Competency Framework for all Prescribers (RPS, 2021, 4).
Personal Characteristics The practitioner taking on the DPP role: 1.1 Recognises the value and responsibility of the DPP role1.2 Demonstrates clinical leadership through their practice 1.3 Demonstrates a commitment to support trainees 1.4 Displays professional integrity: is objective in supervision and/or assessment 1.5 Is open, approachable and empathetic 1.6 Creates a positive learning culture through their practice
Professional Skills and Knowledge
The practitioner taking on the DPP role: 2.1 Works in line with legal, regulatory, professional and organisational standards2.2 is an experienced prescriber in a patient-facing role (an experienced prescriber is defined as an active prescriber who would normally have at least 3 years recent prescribing experience)2.3 Is an active prescriber in a patient-facing role with appropriate knowledge and experience relevant to the trainees area of clinical practice (an active prescriber consults with patients and makes prescribing decisions based on clinical assessment with sufficient frequency to maintain competence. Reflects and audits prescribing practice to identify developmental needs)2.4 Has up-to-date patient-facing clinical and diagnostic skills and evidence of demonstrating competence in an area of practice relevant to the trainee
Teaching and Training
The practitioner taking on the DPP role:
3.1 Has experience or had training in teaching and/or supervising in practice
3.2 Has knowledge, either experiential or through formal training of different training methods to facilitate learning in practice and adapt to individual student needs
3.3 Articulates decision making processes and justifies the rationale for decisions when teaching or training others
3.4 Has knowledge of a range of methods of assessment and experience of conducting assessment of trainees in clinical practice
3.5 Delivers timely and regular constructive feedback
3.6 Facilitates learning by encouraging critical thinking and reflection (RPS, 2021, 9)
Preparation for the Role of Designated Prescribing Practitioner (DPP) 
The GPhC requires course providers to facilitate training for Designated Prescribing Practitioners (DPPs). This must comprise:
The academic programme team will provide all DPPs with the opportunity to attend this IP specific training in person or alternatively, will provide a link to an online teaching package that you will be able to access remotely. The training will take around 45 minutes whether accessed online or in person.
The academic teaching team will ensure that you have the opportunity to ask questions, whether you choose to attend the training in person or complete the video teaching package which will be accessed via the University Panopto platform (no passwords are needed).
The programme team pledge to support DPPs in their role, and to provide feedback about their performance as prescribing supervisors and assessors. The team is committed to the provision of ongoing support and advice for DPPs and will arrange extra training, support, and development as necessary (GPhC, 2022a, 19).
The academic teaching team appreciate your feedback, and we will ask you to kindly provide some qualitative comments on aspects of our short course, such as your suggestions for specific improvements we might make, and how well you feel you have been supported as a DPP, at the end of your trainee prescribers period of supervision.
GPhC (undated) Education and training of pharmacist independent prescribers: evidence framework. London: General Pharmaceutical Council. Available from https://www.pharmacyregulation.org/sites/default/files/document/education-and-training-of-pharmacist-independent-prescribers-evidence-framework-may-2019.pdf [accessed 9 August 2022].
GPhC (2017) Standards for Pharmacy Professionals. London: General Pharmaceutical Council. Available from https://www.pharmacyregulation.org/sites/default/files/standards_for_pharmacy_professionals_may_2017_0.pdf [accessed 7 October 2022].
GPhC (2021a) Revising the education and training requirements for pharmacist independent prescribers. London: General Pharmaceutical Council. Available from https://www.pharmacyregulation.org/sites/default/files/document/gphc-revising-education-training-requirements-pharmacist-independent-prescribers-sept-2021.pdf [accessed 19 July 2022].
GPhC (2021b) Standards for the initial education and training of pharmacists. London: General Pharmaceutical Council. Available from https://www.pharmacyregulation.org/sites/default/files/document/standards-for-the-initial-education-and-training-of-pharmacists-january-2021_1.pdf [accessed 7 October 2022].
GPhC (2022a) Standards for the education and training of pharmacist independent prescribers. London: General Pharmaceutical Council. Available from: https://www.pharmacyregulation.org/sites/default/files/document/standards-for-the-education-and-training-of-pharmacist-independent-prescribers-october-2022.pdf [accessed 18 November 2022].
GPhC (2022b) Education and training of pharmacist independent prescribers - Guidance to support the implementation of the standards. Draft October 2022. London: General Pharmaceutical Council.
RPS (2019) A Competency Framework for Designated Prescribing Practitioners. London: Royal Pharmaceutical Society. Available from: https://www.rpharms.com/Portals/0/RPS%20document%20library/Open%20access/Professional%20standards/DPP%20Framework/DPP%20competency%20framework%20Dec%202019.pdf [accessed 13 July 2022].
RPS (2021) A Competency Framework for all Prescribers. London: Royal Pharmaceutical Society Available from: https://www.rpharms.com/resources/frameworks/prescribers-competency-framework [accessed 18 August 2022].


Staff Contact List | School of Pharmacy | University of LincolnSchool of Pharmacy Staff


