Teaching and Learning | Medical School | University of LincolnTeaching and Learning
The teaching and learning methods used on the Medicine programmes take many different forms. Examples of these include anatomy sessions, case-based learning, clinical relevance sessions, clinical skills sessions, eLearning, lab sessions, lectures, placements, practical classes, self-study, seminars, and tutorials. Examples of some of these areas can be found below.
Practical Classes
In practical classes learning is hands on, and designed to allow students to apply and test the theory they have been learning.
The Drugs in the Eye practical session for example involves the use of topically administered drugs to the eye to investigate their effect on smooth muscle, enabling students to gain a greater understanding of the autonomic nervous system.


Inter-Professional Education
The Medicine programme at Lincoln incorporates inter-professional learning opportunities at different stages to allow medical students to prepare for providing optimal patient care in a collaborative team environment.
These events and activities allow medical students to interact with, learn from, and about the role of other healthcare professionals, and explore case studies that allow them to identify how they correlate in order to achieve the best outcomes for patients.
Anatomy
Students at Lincoln are taught anatomy through pro section in our new Anatomy Suite. In addition, the Medical School also has a suite of models of human body parts as well as bones which will be used throughout the course.
There will be significant emphasis placed on surface anatomy education. Surface anatomy is the ability to relate human internal body parts to the surface of the body and is a vital part of anatomy education.
There are also a host of online learning materials such as radiological imaging and videos that will also be used to enhance the learning of anatomy.


Clinical Skills and Early Clinical Professional Development
Early insight and exploration of clinical issues as well as practice of clinical skills are important components of the early years of the Medicine programmes.
Our students can explore communication and ethical issues in medicine and can begin learning the skills of clinical practice such as history taking, examination, and assessment.
External Clinical Contribution
During the early years of the Medicine programme, medical themes are explored using case studies against which all of the different learning methods are aligned.
 learning, we invite members of our clinical community to deliver teaching sessions on specialist clinical subjects and co-host plenary sessions at the end of each teaching week to help assimilate all of the learning from the case of that week and respond to student questions.", '

"As a Lincolnshire GP, I am pleased to see students having the opportunity to directly ask questions and gain experience from a practising doctor in the early year of the medical programme. I feel this helped consolidate their theoretical learning with real life cases which I see in my daily practice. 
"The case-based plenary session was an excellent way to learn about Atrial Fibrillation. I personally found the experience rewarding, the students were very engaged, and it was a privilege to participate in their learning."
Dr Yasser Chaudhry, Lincolnshire GP
Optional Modules
Optional modules are offered in addition to the core curriculum on the Medicine programme from the first year. These help to provide medical students with an opportunity to study specific topics in greater depth. Examples of previous optional modules include Global Health, History of Medicine from Antiquity to the Present, Introduction to Psychiatry, Physical Activity in the Prevention and Management of Chronic Conditions, Safeguarding, Protection and Inter-Professional Practice: Working with Vulnerable Adults, and The Science and Myths of Sleep.
Global Health
Dr Matthew Bates, module lead explains: irrespective of their eventual specialisation, having a solid grounding in global health can prepare medical students from Lincoln Medical School to be able to work equitably in a global context.
"In a world where health service provision is not evenly distributed, we must strive to uphold the founding principles of the medical profession, the Hippocratic oath."


History of Medicine from Antiquity to the Present
Professor Anna Marie Roos, module lead explains: this survey module (undertaken by both historians and for medical students with shared lectures and seminars), analyses how physicians, other practitioners, and the public understood the body, disease, and health from antiquity to the modern era.
"It was offered to medical students so they could understand the backstory of their profession, as well as teaching them to work with others from different disciplines to improve their oral and written communication skills, important later for their interactions with patients and colleagues."
Our First Cohort
In September 2019, our students took part in a tailored induction programme to introduce them to their course and the University as well as the medical and health challenges in the Lincolnshire region. This included a number of visits to health and emergency service providers across the county.
Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) Waddington Visit
This visit focused on the emergency service response to disasters with the aim of understanding the co-ordination of services required when responding to disasters such as road traffic accidents or fires. Activities included visiting the incident command suite and having a tour of the site as well as witnessing a simulated scenario of a car accident. Students were invited to participate in the simulation and experience some of the equipment used in rescue situations.
Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) Visit
This visit focused on coastal communities and inshore rescue. Students had the opportunity to visit the Royal National Lifeboat Institution at Mablethorpe where they listened to talks about the services provided and various rescue scenarios. They were given a tour of the facilities, the boats, and the kit used in rescue situations. Students also managed to sample some of the local fish and chips!
Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire Air Ambulance Visit
Our students visited the Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire Air Ambulance where they enjoyed a talk from a Helicopter Emergency Medical Service Doctor about emergency service operations.  This helped our students understand more about the co-ordination of services required when responding to disasters such as road traffic and farm accidents, as well as the challenges faced by emergency services when accessing remote rural areas and the impact this has on emergency medicine.


Facilities | Medical School | University of LincolnPurpose-built for the next Generation of Doctors
The University of Lincolns striking city centre campus provides a modern student-centred community. Based on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront, almost everything youll need is either on campus or a short walk away. At Lincoln, we constantly invest in our buildings and facilities as we strive to provide the best learning environment for our students.
The brand new purpose-builtRoss Lucas Medical Sciences Building was completed in March 2021 incorporating lecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite with consultation rooms, a prosection anatomy suite, and a bio-medical and health sciences library. It is the most sustainable building on the University Estate and features both solar panels and a living wall.
Bio-Medical and Health Sciences Library
TheRoss Lucas Medical Sciences Building is home to the newest space in the University of Lincolns Library Service.
The Bio-Medical and Health Sciences Library is a purpose-designed space, located on the 1st floor of the building. The Library brings together the Universitys collections covering Medicine, Life Sciences, Pharmacy, Chemistry, Nursing, and Allied Health and Social Care. In addition to these collections, the Library provides a range of flexible study spaces.
As part of the collaborative approach to teaching medicine offered by Lincoln Medical School, medical students are able to access the combined information resources (e-books, books, journals, and databases) provided by both the University of Lincoln and the University of Nottingham.
The Library has its own dedicated staff, who are available to support students and staff across all the disciplines covered by biomedicine and health sciences.
Clinical skills suite with consultation rooms
Lincoln Medical School is home to a Clinical Suite with consultation rooms to simulate a hospital environment.
Anatomy Suite
At Lincoln Medical School medical students can learn anatomy through experience of pro section in our brand-new anatomy suite. Our Medical School also has a suite of models of human body parts as well as bones which will be used throughout the course.
Ross Library
The Ross Library hosts a variety of flexible study spaces, that include group rooms, booths, individual carrel spaces and quiet areas to suit any study preference.
Our Campus and Facilities
Teaching in the College of Health and Science is delivered in purpose-built facilities, providing innovative spaces for study and research. At Lincoln, we constantly invest in our buildings and facilities as we strive to provide the best learning environment for our students. We understand the importance of giving you the strongest possible foundation to help you achieve your aspirations.


Medical School | College of Health and Science | University of LincolnLincoln Medical School
Welcome
s Brayford Pool Campus and students have access to specialist teaching facilities. The brand new purpose-built Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building was completed in March 2021 incorporating lecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite with consultation rooms, a prosection anatomy suite, and a biomedical and health sciences library.", 'Lincoln Medical School was established in 2018 with the specific aim of improving the recruitment and retention of doctors to Lincolnshire. Our first students started their studies in September 2019.
I am proud to work with experienced colleagues from both universities and set out to provide an excellent learning experience and first class medical education for our students. Please feel free to contact us with any questions you may have, or if you would like further information about the courses, School, or partnership emailmedicine@lincoln.ac.uk.
Professor Danny McLaughlinAssociate Dean of Medicine
Medicine BMBS/BMedSci
This five-year degree aims to develop you into a practising doctor. Upon graduation, you will be eligible to register provisionally with the General Medical Council (GMC) and begin work as a doctor on the UK Foundation Programme.
Course Details
Medicine with a Foundation Year BMBS/BMedSci
This foundation course is designed to widen access to medical study. On successful completion students will automatically progress to the BMBS Medicine course.
Course Details
Teaching and Learning
The teaching and learning methods used on the Medicine programmes take many different forms. Examples include anatomy sessions, case-based learning, clinical skills session, and practicals to name a few.
Teaching and Learning
Medicine Open Day
Our Medicine Open Day on Saturday 27 April is designed for students interested in studying Medicine at Lincoln Medical School in September 2025. You can visit our Brayford Pool Campus, find out more about our BMBS Medicine programme, take part in exciting interactive activities, and speak to our staff and students.
Independence Project
s development: for Lincoln Medical School to operate independently of the University of Nottingham from the 2026-27 academic year, dependent on General Medical Council approval.", 'Facilities
Our students can benefit from specialist facilities including anatomy and clinical skills suites. The purpose-built Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building was completed in March 2021 incorporating lecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite with consultation rooms, a prosection anatomy suite, and a biomedical and health sciences library.
School Staff
Find out more about our experienced team from both the University of Lincoln and University of Nottingham.


Medicine Offer Holder Day | Medical School | University of LincolnMedicine BMBS and Medicine BMBS with Foundation Year Virtual Offer Holder Day
Join us virtually on Saturday 14 May for an insight into life at Lincoln. This online event is designed for students holding an offer of a place on a medicine programme at Lincoln Medical School starting in 2022. Meet staff, current students, and your fellow offer holders who you could potentially spend the next 5 to 6 years of your life with here at Lincoln. Use this opportunity to ask questions and find out everything you need to know about Medicine at Lincoln. Find the full schedule below.
Timetable
School Welcome with Interim Vice Dean/Director of Admissions,Dr David OBrien and Associate Dean, Danny McLaughlin
Ethics Scenario withDr Jessica Hodgson and School Ambassadors
Medicine and Lincolnshire Kahoot Quiz withDr David OBrien
School Ambassador Session
Find out More
t miss your opportunity to find out what it is really like to live and learn at Lincoln, by visiting us in person on one of our Informal Visit Days. ", 'Find out more about funding and financial support including information on student funding, bursaries and scholarships, and support funds. Also find information on drop-in sessions and appointments with the Funding and Financial Support team at Nottingham.
Lincoln Medical School Building
s newpurpose-built Medical School building isbased on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront, within our striking city centre campus. The locationprovides a modern student-centred community with almost everything youll need either on campus or a short walk away.", 'Completed in April 2021, the Medical School building is equipped withlecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite equipped with simulation facilities, a prosection anatomy suite, and a science library.
Watch the video below to take a tour of our Medical School building.

Chat with Our Students
Contact
Lincoln Medical SchoolCollege of Health and ScienceUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincoln LN6 7TS
medicine@lincoln.ac.uk


Alternatives to Medicine | Medical School | University of LincolnRelated Programmes at Lincoln
The University of Lincoln offers a wide range of healthcare and health science related programmes which can provide options to students who are open to the idea of a healthcare career in an area related to medicine that doesnt involve qualifying as a doctor. Potential options may include:
Biomedical Science - BSc (Hons)/MBio
Biomedical scientists play a key role in improving human health. By exploring life processes in humans they lay the foundations for understanding and investigating health, disease, treatment, and prevention.
Pharmaceutical Science - BSc (Hons)
Pharmaceutical Science encompasses a range of scientific disciplines, introducing students to the exciting world of drug discovery, development, and management.
Pharmacy - MPharm
The MPharm course at Lincoln combines the science of medicines and disease with the development of the patient-facing decision-making skills and professional practice required by modern pharmacists.
Midwifery - BSc (Hons)
Midwives offer specialist support to mothers from the antenatal to the postnatal period, and work with a range of healthcare professionals to promote the best interests of a mother and her baby.
Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult) - BSc (Hons)
Nurses perform a vital role in 21st Century healthcare, in both primary and secondary care settings, restoring and promoting health, supporting patients and their families, and profiling healthcare needs of communities.
Nursing (Registered Nurse - Child) - BSc (Hons)
Nurses perform a vital role in 21st Century healthcare, in both primary and secondary care settings, restoring and promoting health, supporting patients and their families, and profiling healthcare needs of communities.
Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health) - BSc (Hons)
Nurses perform a vital role in 21st Century healthcare, in both primary and secondary care settings, restoring and promoting health, supporting patients and their families, and profiling healthcare needs of communities.
Paramedic Science - BSc (Hons)
Paramedics work on the frontline of healthcare, looking after those in need and responding to a wide range of situations, from minor wounds and conditions to more serious, life-threatening injuries and illnesses.
Health and Exercise Science - BSc (Hons)
Health and exercise professionals play an important role in tackling the health challenges we face as a society with a range of physical activity interventions.
Sport and Exercise Therapy - BSc (Hons)
Sports therapy is a dynamic field and therapists are a crucial part of medical teams at many sports clubs, working alongside physios, sports medicine doctors, and sports scientists.


School Staff | Medical School | University of LincolnLincoln Medical School Staff


Independence Project | Medical School | University of LincolnLincoln Medical School Independence Project
Project Overview
Lincoln Medical School was created in 2018 through a collaboration between the universities of Lincoln and Nottingham to deliver world-class medical education in the heart of Lincolnshire. Until this point, Lincolnshire was the largest English county without a dedicated medical school of its own, with local NHS skills shortages in some specialisms.
s NHS Trusts and a range of other partner organisations with an interest in the health and prosperity of local communities. With a focus on advancing healthcare in rural settings, Lincoln Medical School now plays a major role in training future generations of hospital doctors and GPs to serve communities across Greater Lincolnshire and surrounding rural areas.", 'The successful bid to establish a medical school for Lincolnshire was originally driven by a partnership between the universities of Lincoln and Nottingham, with support from the local healthcare community. The same founding partners are now committed to the next phase of the medical school's development: for Lincoln Medical School to operate independently of the University of Nottingham from the 2026-27 academic year, dependent on General Medical Council approval. Please check back regularly as we will be updating this page with the latest information. You can also contact us directly at LMSProjectsTeam@lincoln.ac.uk.
Our History
Lincoln Medical School Established
Lincoln Medical School was established in 2018 with the specific aim of improving the recruitment and retention of doctors to Lincolnshire.
First Students Begin Their Studies
Our first students started their studies in September 2019, on our BMBS Medicine and BMBS Medicine with a Foundation Year programmes.
Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building Completed
The new purpose-built Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building was completed in March 2021, where our students now benefit from specialist facilities.
Independence Project Announced
Lincoln Medical School aims to operate independently of the University of Nottingham from 2026-27, dependent on General Medical Council approval.
Inaugural Dean Announced
In January 2024, Dr Jamie Read FHEA BMBS MAcadMEd MClinEd FRCP was appointed as the Inaugural Dean of Lincoln Medical School.
Independence Project FAQs
We intend to offer two Medicine programmes: Medicine MBChB (5 years of study) and Medicine MBChB with a Gateway Year (6 years of study, including an integrated year 0  this will only be open to students from widening participation backgrounds).
The last year of entry for the programmes under our partnership with University of Nottingham will be the 2024/25 academic year for Foundation Year (A18L), and 2025/26 academic year for BMBS Medicine (A10L).
Subject to agreement with the Office for Students, for 2026 entry we will have 80 places available on our Medicine MBChB programme and 20 places available on our Medicine MBChB with a Gateway year programme.
As a current student you are registered at the University of Nottingham. Lincoln Medical School independence will not affect your programme of study as the two universities in the partnership will work together to ensure that you can graduate with BMedSci and BMBS (University of Nottingham).
If you are successful in gaining a place at Lincoln Medical School to start in September 2024, you will be registered at the University of Nottingham. Lincoln Medical School independence will not affect your programme of study as the two universities in the partnership will work together to ensure that you can graduate with BMedSci and BMBS (University of Nottingham).
Please be aware that we will not be offering the A18L Medicine with a Foundation Year programme for 2025 entry. If you are successful in gaining a place at Lincoln Medical School on the A10L Medicine programme to start in September 2025, you will be registered at the University of Nottingham. Lincoln Medical School independence will not affect your programme of study as the two universities in the partnership will work together to ensure that you can graduate with BMedSci and BMBS (University of Nottingham).
Lincoln Medical School was established in 2018 as a partnership between the two universities, with the stated aim of the University of Lincoln taking over as the degree awarding body in due course. Our first students, admitted in September 2019, are due to graduate with their medical degrees in July 2024; this milestone is a proof of principle that medical students can successfully undertake all of their undergraduate training in Lincolnshire and so the path to independence is now clear.
Whilst there will be some differences in the content of year 0 in the new programme, the change is mostly semantic. Changing the title to with a Gateway Year avoids confusion between this programme and the University of Lincolns Science Foundation Year, Foundation degrees (which medical schools do not offer) and the United Kingdom Foundation Programme for graduating doctors (FY1/FY2).
All UK universities that have the power to award Medicine degrees (primary medical qualifications) must be accredited by the General Medical Council (GMC), which sets the standards for undergraduate medical education in the UK.
All new medical schools are on an accreditation journey, and the GMC do not provide full accreditation until the first cohort of students are in their final year of study. All new schools are therefore required to have a contingency school who can award their medical degree in the unlikely event that something goes wrong.
In our case, the contingency school will be the University of Nottingham. Full accreditation means that graduates can gain provisional registration with the GMC and a licence to practise medicine in the UK; full registration of UK medical graduates with the GMC is only possible after successful completion of the first year of the UK Foundation Programme (FY1).
Technically, yes. However, this is no different to the situation in all new medical schools, and the University of Nottingham will be ready to award the degree if required.
Full university approval of our curriculum will not be in place until summer 2024, but our current plans are for an integrated, systems-based and case-based curriculum that takes place over three phases.
All teaching and learning will be mapped to the General Medical Councils Outcomes for Graduates and List of Practical Skills and Procedures, and the Medical Licensing Assessment Content Map. Phase one will represent the early years of study (years 0-2) and will aim to provide students with a solid base of biomedical, psychosocial, and professional skills to enable them to make a success of the remainder of their studies, and will include some clinical placement in GP practices and hospitals.
Phase two will represent the transition to full-time clinical placements and introduce students to the practice of medicine, surgery, primary care, psychiatry, child health, womens health, and other specialties over years three and four. Placements will be complemented by simulation in both the clinical and the university environment.
Phase three will be the final year of study, where students can reinforce their knowledge of the principles and practice of medicine and develop from being proto-professionals to the successful medical graduates and practitioners of the future.
Full university approval of our admissions criteria will not be in place until spring 2025. However, we are unlikely to change significantly from the current admissions criteria for A10L (in the case of Medicine MBChB) or A18L (in the case of Medicine with a Gateway Year MBChB). Please see our website course pages for full details.
These FAQs will be regularly updated as the independence project progresses. In the meantime, if you have any further questions or concerns, please contact us by email at LMSProjectsTeam@lincoln.ac.uk.
Explore Lincoln Medical School
Find out more about Lincoln Medical School, including our courses, facilities, and staff.
Contact Us
University of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS


