FCRG | Research | University of LincolnWhat We Do
Research within the FCRG involves the application of psychological knowledge and methods to areas relating to crime and justice. Specific core research topics within the FCRG include: Public attitudes (e.g., attitudes towards people who have offended and their reintegration into society); Gambling and addiction (e.g., identifying and managing risk factors for addiction); Forensic practice research (e.g., the assessment and treatment of offending behaviours, occupational stress among staff working in high-stress environments, and trauma resilience in forensic populations and staff); Investigative and courtroom issues (e.g., supporting transitions and families of people with criminal convictions, accuracy of testimony, police investigation techniques. and courtroom practice); Understanding offending (e.g., examining processes and factors associated with offence-related cognitions and fantasies); and Service evaluations (e.g., evaluating the delivery and efficacy of local rehabilitation schemes).
MSc in Forensic Psychology is topically linked:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/frspsyms
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", '
Staff

Ross Bartels (lead)

Georgina Gous (deputy)

Amanda Roberts

Lauren Smith

Michelle Smith

Rachael Dagnall

Todd Hogue

Hannah Merdian

Tochukwu Onwuegbusi

Phil Wilmott

Rachael Mason
School of Psychology Research Groups
Cognitive Psychology Research Group
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Connect Online:
Connect with Usu200c
School of Psychology, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Postgraduate Programmes | School of Psychology | University of Lincoln


Research Students | School of Psychology | University of LincolnSchool Research Committee
The School Research Committee meets regularly and will discuss issues that concern PGR students. Meeting minutes are available to all PhD students.
The current PGR representative in the committee isDr Bonaventura Majolo. If you wish to add something to the agenda then please contact your representative in the first instance.
Annual Monitoring
Your main supervisor will continually review your progress. The School Research Committee assesses the progress of all doctoral students each year during the Summer Term. You will be required to give a 20 minute presentation in a School Internal Seminar (perhaps during a PGR session in the annual student conference). For example, as a first-year student you may choose to present a literature review and/or experimental design, or as a second-year student you may decide to present one of your thesis chapters or a draft journal manuscript.
This assessment determines the appropriate registration for the following year. For most students, the recommendation will be to continue with their current status. For some, who have completed their empirical work and are writing up their thesis, the recommendation will be to move to Thesis Pending Fees Status (please consult with Research Degrees Handbook). However, exceptionally the recommendation will be to terminate the students doctoral programme.
Entry into the next year of a doctoral programme is conditional on evidence that the student is engaging successfully with doctoral study and likely to submit a high quality thesis within the period of maximum registration indicated in your original offer letter. To make such a recommendation the School Research Committee must be assured that the quantity and quality of your work over the academic year is commensurate with the award of a doctoral degree. The source of evidence includes (1) your presentation/report on work completed during the academic year, and (2) your main supervisors report.
Ethical Approval
All research requires ethical approval before it begins.
Resources and Research Expenses
Conducting research and research training is expensive. The School is fully committed to supporting the work of all PGR students and every effort is made to support realistic research plans. Problems in relation to funding or resources should be first raised with your main supervisor who may then consult the Director of PGR and the School Research Committee.
Upon confirmation of your registration, you will be allocated a desk area and a computer in the School Postgraduate Room. You have rights to access school teaching and research resources, such as stationary, printing/photocopy costs, school database of questionnaires and other experimental materials, school-owned equipment, and technician help.
Working Out of Hours
Out of hours are considered to be before 8am or after 6pm weekdays, at weekends or during University closure days. Where possible, we would encourage postgraduate students not to work alone out of hours. In the case of postgraduate students and postdocs it is the responsibility of the main supervisor to ensure that the individual has received training to be able to conduct research safely out of hours and that they are familiar with emergency procedures.
If possible, research should not be conducted out of hours, although it is understood that this may be necessary based on the nature of the research (including pressure on equipment, subject recruitment). All research conducted out of hours should have undergone a risk assessment by your main supervisor. 

The School supports a high level of research activity of various kinds that is related to psychology and this is reflected by weeklyschool research seminarand routine research group meetings. The School works well when its members are not only getting on well with their own particular endeavours but also taking an active interest in what others are doing. New ideas and insight about one's own research problem can arise from understanding ideas from a different area in psychology or related discipline. Consequently research students are expected to attend all school research seminars and their own research group meetings. PhD students are encouraged to go for dinner with the external speakers when the speaker's talk is related to their research area.
Award of a doctorate degree indicates that a researcher has developed advanced skills in conducting and communicating specialised research. Researchers are expected to be able to present and discuss their research. The best way to become an accomplished presenter is to begin with a small, supportive and familiar audience of the kind provided by supervisors, supportive faculty and fellow postgraduates. It is recommended that you present your work to your research group at least once a year, especially at the key stages of your study, such as at the completion of your experimental design, or at the completion of data analysis of your first major study. In addition, you are strongly encouraged to present your work at the University Annual Postgraduate Conference.
You should also present your work at one or two national or international conferences. You may need to apply for additional funding to do this. Your main supervisor can identify appropriate sources and help you make such applications.
Prior practice is very important when writing a thesis. You should begin writing in your first year. You are strongly encouraged to submit your work to relevant journals from your second year onwards. It is usually helpful to include your supervisor as a co-author and learn from his/her approach to publishing research papers. Discussing reviewers comments (and how to respond to them) with your supervisor is an especially useful learning experience in preparing yourself to defend your thesis. Adding published (or in press) to your curriculum vitae before you finish your doctorate will also help you compete for postdoctoral positions.

Key people in the School related to Postgraduate Research (PGR):

Director of Postgraduate Research Kun Guo
Psychology School Laboratory Director Petra Pollux
Head of School Kirsty Miller
Postgraduate Research Administrator Mrs Katie Rushbrook
Your first/main supervisor is the most important person for the management of your study. You and your main supervisor are responsible for managing your work so that you complete your thesis within an agreed period of funding (e.g., the funded period or within 5 years for self-funded full-time students and 8 years for part-time students). You also have second supervisor (and in some cases a third supervisor) who complements the expertise of the main supervisor. Supervision arrangements with second supervisors are coordinated by main supervisors.
You are entitled to receive regular supervision in face-to-face, email or telephone meetings. Formal face-to-face supervision meetings should occur at least once every two weeks. The university requires thatallsuch formal supervision meetings between PGR students and their supervisors are documented. Your supervisor can explain this process to you and you can consult with your Research Degrees handbook.
It is good practice for you to keep a record of all your supervision meetings including a brief note of topics discussed and actions agreed. Your supervisor can check this for you from time to time.
Very occasionally, problems arise in a supervisory relationship. For example, if a student's interests change, or for other reasons, the assignment of a supervisor no longer seems suitable. In such circumstances, the possibility of changing supervisor should be discussed by student and supervisor and with the Director of PGR. It is not good practice to discuss such problems with other faculty members. Initially, any such problems should be explicitly discussed with your supervisors in supervision time. Areas of agreement and disagreement should be listed and, ideally, agreed upon in writing. If problems persist, the PGR student should discuss these with the Director of PGR (Kun Guo). You may also find it helpful to make an appointment with a Student Advisor at the Student Centre.
Please note that we expect postgraduate students to submit their theses within their funded period. This is important to your future employment prospects. It is not in students or the Schools interests for students to be late in submitting their theses.

Seminars and practical classes play a large part in the undergraduate psychology programmes. Graduate Teaching Assistants are required to contribute up to 6 hours per teaching week as part of their contract with the School. Other PhD students who are part-funded by internal School funds are also expected to engage in some teaching. Subject to School financial arrangement, self-funded student could also be encouraged to take some teaching activities. Having some teaching experience can be very helpful later in your career, when applying for academic positions. Doctoral students teaching hours are monitored to ensure that their teaching workload does not compromise their research progress.

TheUniversity Graduate Schooloffers induction and various generic training courses for all PGR students.
Some of them are specifically designed for students from the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities. If you need specific subject-related training, please contact your supervisor.


DASB | Research | University of LincolnWhat We Do
We are an interdisciplinary team of developmental, social, and evolutionary psychologists who investigate the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor and behavioural processes that affect interpersonal, intergroup, and interspecies attitudes, cognition, emotion, and behaviour.
Our Research is Different 
As well as directly contributing theory and knowledge to developmental psychology, our work has significant and wide-ranging impacts on real world issues, policy, and practice. Members of our Research Group have received prestigious awards and grants from a range of funding bodies, including ESRC, the National Institute of Health, the Primate Society of Great Britain, the Leakey Foundation. We have also repeatedly won prestigious funding from charities and industry, e.g., from Waltham and MARS. Our group members actively engage in consultancy work for government departments, businesses, and third-sector organisations such as the World Health Organisation, Government departments nationally and internationally, People United, Department for Work and Pensions, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, and the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education. We also organise workshops and hold public talks and events within the community, such as the Summer Scientist for families or stakeholder workshops on safe Animal-assisted Interventions.
Crossing Boundaries 
We believe there is clear scientific value in crossing boundaries between psychology and traditionally distinct scientific disciplines such as anthropology, economics, linguistics, ethology, medicine, veterinary medicine, physiology and epidemiology. Our academic staff and community of postgraduate students collaborate with researchers at national and international universities, charities and businesses.
Our research areas include:
 Developmental Psychology
 Human-animal interaction
 Interventions
 Decision-making
 Behaviour and Evolution
 Motivation and Memory
 Neurodevelopmental disorders
 Health, Risk and Injury Prevention
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Research Centre and other Research Groupings

Autism Research Innovation Centre

Lincoln Education Assistance with Dogs
Staff

Prof Kerstin Meints (Lead)

Dr Valentina Sclafani (Deputy)

Dr Lesley Allinson

Dr Niko Kargas

Prof Bino Majolo

Dr Laetitia Marechal

Dr Stephen Earl

Dr Kirsty Miller

Dr Michael Mireku

Dr Lynn Pickerell

Dr Victoria Brelsford

Dr Emile van der Zee

Dr Fenja Ziegler

Ms Charlotte Cartledge

Visiting Prof: Dr Sandra McCune
School of Psychology Research Groups
Cognitive Psychology Research Group
Forensic and Criminal Research Group
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Connect Online:
Connect with Usu200c
School of Psychology, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Lincoln Babylab | Research | University of LincolnResearching Early YearsDevelopment
The Lincoln Infant and Child Development Lab opened in 2000 and research has been concentrating on different areas of categorisation and conceptual development as well as speech perception and language acquisition, especially word learning and early grammar.
Other research focuses on injury prevention - especially on the prevention of dog bite injuries. Here, we assessed the Blue Dog bite prevention programme, www.thebluedog.organd we have carried out further research projects on children's misinterpretation of dogs' facial expressions, on why children get bitten in the face, head and neck area more often. We have also undertaken eye-tracking studies of children's looking at dog faces and past and ongoing research also investigates children's and adults' perception of dog signallingand an assessment of the effectiveness of bite prevention in the home with a familiar dog.
Lincoln Infant Lab Package 1.0:
A new programme package for IPL, Preferential Listening, Habituation and Eyetracking.
Lincoln Infant Lab Package (PDF)
If you want to download the Infant Lab Package, please see bottom of this page.
CDI Links:
Links to the Lincoln CDIsfor Infants and Toddlers which we use to assess the active and passive vocabulary of all children who come to the lab.
Lincoln Infant Communicative Development Inventory (PDF)
Lincoln Toddler Communicative Development Inventory (PDF)
Lincoln electronic CDI database

First steps into thinking and language
These are some of the questions we are trying to answer. By investigating infants' early categorisation behaviour and their early linguistic capabilities we hope to gain more knowledge about how babies categorise the world, how their conceptual development grows and about how language evolves from earliest speech perception up to full-blown grammars.
How do we do this?
Preferential Looking:Babies participating in our studies sit on their parent's lap in front of a screen similar to a cinema screen for about 2-5 minutes. They see images of objects (e.g. a cup) or animals (e.g. a cat) and hear a friendly, female voice saying "Look, look at the cup" (or cat etc.).
Preferential Listening: Here, children sit on their parent's lap and look at lights to their right and to their left while they hear speech sounds or words. While the child is watching the images on the screens in Preferential Looking, or looking at the lights in preferential Listening, we record the direction the child is looking in to discover what he or she understands.

More Information
Key Areas of Research
Word Learning:
Some of the key areas in early word learning are the following:
Categorisation skills:
What is going on in babies' minds when they show evidence for understanding the word "bird"? What is the word connected to? All birds? Only the bird they saw once? Their grandmother's canary? How soon do they learn to connect atypical birds like ostriches and penguins with the word "bird"? We investigate how infants and children categorise objects and if they prefer typical to atypical objects/animals (e.g. a sparrow versus an ostrich) at different stages in their development. Looking at the role of typicality effects in early word learning gives us valuable insights into what these early words refer to. We are investigating especially the
Contextualisation:
As context also plays a big role in children's development, research in the Lincoln Infant and Child Development Labalso focuses on context effects. Using Preferential Looking, we hope to find out in how far adults and children can be influenced in their categorisation of objects by different contexts.
All these efforts bring us closer to finding out about how thinking and language develop. You might be surprised to learn how much your child already knows!
We are always looking for parents and babies to volunteer for our studies!
For this project, the first in this country, we need parents of children aged 8 to 18 months from all across the UK. Volunteer parents will be asked to tell us which words their children understand and say and which gestures they do by filling in our new UK-CDI checklist.
If you would like to take part, please click here
or contact:
Dr. Kerstin Meints (Lab Director)Lincoln Infant and Child Development Lab, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TSPhone: 01522 886481 Fax: 01522 88 6026 E-mail:  babylab@lincoln.ac.uk
The research has been approved by the Lincolnshire Research Ethics Committee.
Here isa selection of publications and coverage
Press coverage:
 Sky News
 BBC
Reviews:
Meints, Kerstin. (1998). Review of Human evolution, language and mind: A psychological and archaeological inquiry. British Journal of Developmental Psychology, 16.
Articles:
Meints, K., Harris, P.L., & Plunkett, K. Big birds and dirty birds. Early comprehension of adjectives and the role of word stress (in preparation).
Meints, K., Plunkett, K. & Harris, P.L.(2008) Eating apples or houseplants? The role of typicality in early comprehension of verbs. Language and Cognitive Processes, 23 (3). pp. 434-463.
Southgate, V., Gomez, J.-C. & Meints, K. The gravity error in children and macaques:Failure of response control or representational inflexibility? (under review).
Meints, K., Plunkett, K., Harris, P.L. & Dimmock, D. (2004).The Cow on the High Street: effects of background context on early naming. Cognitive Development 19,3: 275-290.
Meints, K. (2003). Kategorisierung und frhes Verstehen von Nomina, Prpositionen und Verben. In: Stefanie Haberzettel. & Heide Wegener (Eds.), Die Rolle der Konzeptualisierung im Spracherwerb (pp. 71-88). Frankfurt/Main, Bern: Peter Lang Verlag (in print).
Meints, K. (2003).To get or to be? Use and acquisition of get- versus be-passives: evidence from children and adults. In H. Cuyckens, T. Berg, R. Dirven & K.-U. Panther (Eds.), Motivation in Language: Current issues in linguistic theory (pp. 123-150). Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Meints, K. (2003). Shifting ontological boundaries or  how much influence does language have on perception and ontological status? Developmental Science 6,1:22-24.
Meints, K., Plunkett, K., Harris, P.L. & Dimmock, D.K. (2002).What is on and under to 15-, 18- and 24-month-olds? Typicality effects in early comprehension of spatial prepositions. British Journal of Developmental Psychology, 20, 113-130.
Southgate, V., Meints, K. (2000).Typicality, naming and category membership in young children. Cognitive Linguistics, Vol. 11 (1/2), 4-16.
Meints, K., Plunkett, K. & Harris, P.L. (1999b). When does an ostrich become a bird? The role of typicality in early word comprehension. Developmental Psychology, Vol. 35 (4), 1072-1078.
Meints, K. (1999a). Prototypes and the Acquisition of the English passive. In: Kokinov, B. (ed.). Perspectives on Cognitive Science, Vol. 4: 67-77. Sofia: NBU Press.
Books:
Meints, K. (1999c). Typizittseffekte im Erwerb des englischen Passivs: Eine empirische Untersuchung. Wiesbaden: Deutscher Universittsverlag.
Links:
Link to the National Childbirth Trust article (Under Construction) written by members of the three Babylabs in Oxford, Reading and Lincoln.
Dr Kerstin Meints' profile page:
Links to the Lincoln CDIs (Under Construction) for Infants and Toddlers which we use to assess the active and passive vocabulary of all children who come to the lab.
Links to the Blue Dog project.
Links to the  Oxford Babylab where I worked before setting up the Babylab in Lincoln.
Link to our collaborators at the  Norwegian Babylab in Trondheim
The material on this webpage may not be reproduced without permission. For more information please contact the Lincoln Babylab at:  kmeints@lincoln.ac.uk

The Lincoln Infant Lab Package 1.0
Consists of five software packages that are used to create, present, score and analyse Intermodal Preferential Looking studies, habituation studies and Preferential Listening studies.
Download software
MSc Speech and Language Therapy (Pre-Registration)
Connect Online:


[]


Research | School of Psychology | University of LincolnResearch in the School of Psychology
The School of Psychology has a strong and growing reputation for excellent fundamental and applied research with international impact.
Our research is supported by a wide range of funding bodies, published in top-ranking journals and presented at international conferences. The school fosters a vibrant and outward facing culture and encourages members of the public and non-academic organisations to become partners and collaborators in our research.
Postgraduate research students are placed at the heart of research activity in the school with many students supported through full or part funded studentships and assistantships.
Cognitive Psychology Research Group
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Forensic and Crime Research Group
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Social Psychology Research Group
School of Psychology Research Labs

Autism Research Innovation Centre
ARICs mission is to create a diverse and inclusive environment where community knowledge and academic expertise merge to produce evidence-based innovative professional approaches and services for enriching the lives of autistic people and those who support them throughout their lifespan.
Read More
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre (LiSReC)
LiSReC aims to improve our understanding of all aspects of sleep, from basic sleep science through to frontline clinical applications. A collaborative venture between the University of Lincoln and Bishop Grosseteste University, our mission is to improve the sleep of people everywhere through high quality research, education and engagement.
Read More
Connect with Us
Connect with Usu200c
School of Psychology, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


School of Psychology | College of Health and Science | University of LincolnWelcometo the School of Psychology
Psychology allows us to explore some of the big questions about what it means to be human, examining the science behind howpeoplethink, behave, and react to others. Our Psychology programmes tap into the diverse and multidisciplinary nature of Psychology, offering modules based in staff knowledge and expertise.Current research questions being explored by our staff and students include understanding the impact of Covid-19 on mental health; the effect of human activity on habitat selection in the Barbary macaque; and investigating online dating behaviours using the science of facial attractiveness.
Within our programmes we embed the opportunity to gain practical experience and to apply theory to the real world, with options to take work experience electives.
We area vibrant multi-cultural community of staff and students, with consistently excellent ratings from students and a strong research profile.We are proud to hold theAthena SWAN Silver Award,recognising our commitment to the advancement of gender equality in academia.Weembrace diversity, champion equality, and are proactive in making our School an inclusive environment for all.
Student engagement is at the heart of our approach to teaching and learning, and we focus on creating a community of psychologists. We offer a range of undergraduate and postgraduate taught programmes, with opportunities for students to enhance theirexperience and employability both within and outside of the curriculum.Our programmes aim to prepare our students for a range of career opportunities across the fields of psychology, education, healthcare, social services,data analytics, andthe media.
We foster strong links with public, private, and charitable sector organisations, and embed publicengagement throughout our practice. A thriving number of postgraduateresearch students enhances our community, and there areopportunities for full-time and part-time funded studentships. 
We hope you enjoy finding out about what we do and what we offer - we look forward tomeeting you.
Dr Kirsty Miller,Head of the School of Psychology
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degree courses available within the School of Psychology.
Postgraduate
Postgraduate taught and research programmes available within the School of Psychology.
Research
Our School offers you opportunities to learn from experienced researchers and take part in new research projects.
School Staff
Staff within the School of Psychology
Outreach, Impact, and Engagement
Public engagement describes the ways in which the activity and benefits of education and research in the School of Psychology are shared with the public.
School Seminars
All University of Lincoln students and staff are welcome to our online seminars.
The research in the eye-tracking laboratory is focused on inferential process in vision, social attention and cognition, which investigates how visual cognition is shaped and influenced by our environment, experience and knowledge. We are currently examining how we move the eyes to select and look at salient visual cues around us to understand our surroundings, how these cues are processed in the brain and further used to guide our behaviour in the tasks such as face recognition, emotion recognition, body perception, and scene understanding.
Electroencephalogram studies are well used in psychology to ascertain activation patterns in the brain in response to stimuli to see when and where parts of the brain are responding. Studies in the past and currently have centred around visual discomfort, noise, investigating spatial frequency perception, migraines, visual response to visual illusions and natural images, as well as perception of motion and body language. EEG allows electrodes to be placed onto the scalp using a conductive gel and a cap to position the electrodes with. The School has recently acquired a new ActiveTwo BioSemi system and also houses a second BioSemi system. There are EEG sets available for younger children as well for studies involving younger participants.
s physical and emotional arousal state.", 'The Molecular lab is currently carrying out and has carried out in the past studies revolving around cortisol that was measured alongside other behavioural and demographic measures and works in conjunction with the Phlebotomy/CANTAB lab to test executive function alongside biological markers such as cortisol. Part of new PhD student research is looking at blood analysis in diabetic patients as well as having worked on DNA analysis in previous studies. The Molecular lab houses a contained wet lab for chemical and biological analyses on site and stores samples from participants before, during and after processing and analyses.
s (such as displacing or stretching hands) to see the effect on motion and performance. There are also feedback tools to guide the participant as well as investigating limb embodiment and phantom limbs - the lab has a number of prosthetic hands for use in research investigating this. The lab also has glasses which can cover a single eye during movement tasks.", 'The Lincoln Infant and Child Development Lab opened in 2000 and research has been concentrating on different areas of categorisation andconceptual development as well as speech perception and language acquisition, especially word learning andearly grammar.Other research focuses on injury prevention - especially on the prevention of dog bite injuries. Here, we assessed the Blue Dog bite prevention programme, www.thebluedog.organd we have carried out further research projects on children's misinterpretation of dogs' facial expressions, on why children get bitten in the face, head and neck area more often. We have also undertaken eye-tracking studies of children looking at dog faces and past and ongoing research also investigates children's and adults' perception of dog signalling and an assessment of the effectiveness of bite prevention in the home with a familiar dog.
This lab looks at studies of motion, colour and colour constancy perception as well as reactions to visual stimuli. The lab houses a set of high refresh rate monitors and participants will look at a range of videos and image stimuli while making responses about their own perception in relation to the stimuli. Studies looking at specific visual illusions, especially around colour have also been of interest.
This labhouses a driving simulator set up with a widescreen monitor and a fully integrated simulated driving seat with adjustable and movable parameters. There are a range of driving simulators used in software but are adaptable to necessary tasks. Current studies involve looking at a range of participants including those who are rated higher on the autistic spectrum, and analysing eyetracking, physiological and behavioural data such as driving performance on standardised tasks as well as head tracking and object recognition.
Discover New Worlds with Global Opportunities
The University of Lincoln has a growing number of agreements with universities and partner institutions from Europe and around the world offering Erasmus+ and Study Abroad programmes.
Connect with Us
Connect with Usu200c
School of Psychology, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Research Opportunities | Research | University of LincolnDr. Lesley Allinson (Lesley@lincoln.ac.uk)
Individuals with autism are much less likely to take up driving compared to non-autistic individuals of matching cognitive ability. Those autistic individuals who are drivers appear to be more prone to accidents. This might be due to Executive Function (EF) deficits (such as switching attention, inhibiting responses and short-term memory impairments) believed to be common in autism. It may however be that EF deficits are not autism specific and can generally be seen to affect drivers who do not possess a diagnosis. In our Driving Simulator Laboratory, we have explored EF deficits in a typical population and are now proposing to study an autistic population. Our driving simulator has eye tracking technology and a further project could analyse, In depth, data from autistic and non-autistic drivers. Different patterns of eye gaze may account for driving errors.
Dr. Lesley Allinson (Lesley@lincoln.ac.uk)
Research on both EF difficulties and eye gaze have so far produced mixed findings but it is important to provide firm evidence of driving outcomes in autism as being able to drive is a key step to becoming independent and enhances the chance of finding employment. The DVLA recently introduced new restrictions on licence applications from those with autism. The outcry that resulted led them to quickly backdown. This would have been an additional barrier for autistic people, and before such decisions are taken there needs to be solid evidence of differences between those diagnosed and those not. It may ultimately lead to better training based on identified deficits whether in autistic or neurotypical drivers.
Dr. Matthew Craddock (mcraddock@lincoln.ac.uk)
Neural oscillations are rhythmic patterns of brain activity visible in electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings of electrical activity on the human scalp. Oscillations in the alpha-band - approximately with a frequency range of 8-13 Hz - are the most prominent of these rhythmic patterns, and have been shown to reflect biasing of attention. During visuospatial attention tasks in which participants covertly attend to the left or right hemifield of visual space, the spatial distribution of the power of alpha-band oscillations shifts accordingly. Specifically, alpha power increases over parieto-occipital cortex contralateral to the to-be-ignored region of space relative to when that same region of space is attended to. However, alpha-band oscillations are do not exist in isolation. The brain exhibits activity over a wide range of frequencies, and overall changes in that activity may be conflated with changes in a particular range. This project will use EEG to record electrical signals originating from the brain while participants perform covert spatial attention tasks. It will examine whether the changes observed in alpha-band activity during these tasks reflect broader changes across the whole spectrum of brain activity.
Dr. Julia Fcker (jfocker@lincoln.ac.uk)
Previous studies have shown improved attentional functions after action video-game training, e.g. when tracking multiple moving objects. In the study we aim at investigating the neural correlates of multiple object tracking in video game players compared to non-players. To this purpose, we will record electrophysiological and behavioural correlates of tracking multiple moving objects in 16action video game players (AVGPs), 16 non-action video game players (NAVGPs) and 16 non-video game players (i.e., controls; CONs). Participants are presented with blue and yellow cartoon faces moving around a screen and told to keep track of the blue faces. All the faces then change colour to yellow but volunteers are asked to still keep track of the faces that were initially blue. During this phase different target cues are presented, which consist of a colour change, an auditory cue or an auditory-visual cue. We expect gamers to show improved performance compared to non-video game players. Moreover, we expect modulations of the ERP components which are localized in areas of the attentional network. This study allows to investigate neural changes underlying attentional capacity in individuals with improved cognitive functions following extensive video game playing.
Dr. Julia Fcker (jfocker@lincoln.ac.uk) & Dr. Andrea Pavan (apavan@lincoln.ac.uk)
Previous studies have shown improved cognitive and perceptual functions after action video-game training. In the study we aim at investigating the neural correlates of visual working memory in video game players compared to non-players. To this purpose, we will record electrophysiological and behavioural correlates of visual working memory under low and high load conditions in 16 action video game players (AVGPs), 16 nonaction video game players (NAVGPs) and 16 non-video game players (i.e., controls; CONs). In the high load condition, four different Gabors (i.e., oriented stimuli) will be presented in each visual quadrant, whereas in the low-load condition only two Gabors will be presented in one visual hemi-field. After a specific time interval, a probe stimulus will be presented and participants have to report the orientation of the spatially cued Gabor. In general, we expect that video game players (i.e., AVGPs and NAVGPs) outperform CONs, especially under the high memory load condition. Differences between the two video game groups will also be assessed. Moreover, we expect modulations of the ERP components generated in the frontoparietal network. This study allows to investigate neural changes underlying visual working memory in individuals with improved cognitive functions following extensive video game playing.
Prof. Kun Guo (kguo@lincoln.ac.uk)
Humans in close relations often develop similar preference/taste of attractiveness or aesthetic judgement. This project will examine whether dogs and their owners prefer the same visual traits that defining aesthetic and attractiveness. We will use behavioural measurements (e.g. dog approach speed, approach order/sequence to stimuli) to examine whether dogs agree with their owners rating of aesthetic or face attractiveness, and whether there is a species-specific preferences for attractiveness based on general perceptual mechanisms.
Prof. Kun Guo (kguo@lincoln.ac.uk)
The Behavioural Ecology View proposed by Fridlund (1994) suggests that facial expressions are not just as indicators of current emotional state, but are also indicators of future behaviour. From this perspective, we can argue that human facial expressions might be used by the dogs to adjust their behaviour based on the likely future behaviour of the human. This project will look at how well dogs can understand the communicative and predicative value of facial expressions, and how likely theycan use their understanding to guide their approach/ avoidance behaviour and their interactions with human.
Prof. Kun Guo (kguo@lincoln.ac.uk)
The increasing presence of pet, assistance and therapy animals (e.g. dogs and cats) in our society requires our timely interpretation of emotional expression in animals, which is fundamental for safe and rewarding human-animal interaction and to ensure animal welfare. We hope to bring together the cutting-edge research techniques, such as behavioural pattern analysis, eye-tracking, virtual reality and brain imaging (you can use one or two methodologies based on your personal interest), in order to achieve the overarching objectives of understanding whether humans process human and animal emotional cues in a similar manner at perceptual, cognitive, neural and behavioural levels. You can either research on one of my already-planned projects or come up with your own project.
Dr. Ava Horowitz (ahorowitz@lincoln.ac.uk)
Contemporary attachment theory focuses on cognitive and affective processing (Crittenden, 2000) and has been expanded to the understanding of adult relationships, including adult-adult relationships (Howe, 2011). Attachment theory is currently being applied in areas such as clinical practice (Barazzone, Santos, McGowan & Donaghay-Spire, 2019), mentoring (Germain, 2011; Gormley, 2011), schools (Kearns & Hart, 2018; Parker & Levinson, 2018) and extensively within the assessment, approval and monitoring of fosterers and adopters in the UK (Department of Health, 2000). An area that appears less explored is the capacity of close friendships to meet the attachment needs of adults and how friendship choice, development and loss maps on to the attachment system. This project would aim to begin such an exploration, via self-report measures, potentially combining qualitative and quantitative methods. Details of the precise focus and method remain to be negotiated between the supervisor and supervisee, depending on where their interests intersect.
Dr. John Hudson (jhudson@lincoln.ac.uk)
There is strong evidence that speech shares some neuronal processes with fine motor movement. It has been suggested that characteristics such as sequencing, motor timing and coordination, which form the basis of the speech-motor system, may underlie these shared processes. A series of recent influential papers from the Lincoln Trancranial Doppler lab has led to the development of a theoretical model describing a left lateralised Speech-Praxis Centre, which is suggested to underpin the commonalities in information processing across sequential speech and motor output. However, there is little work exploring precisely which aspects of these functions are most closely related to this left lateralised asymmetry. There is a need to extend our understanding of left hemispheric specialisation underlying speech/motor processes in order to accurately assess clinical cohorts with developmental and acquired disorders of language and motor function. This will increase knowledge of the mechanisms underlying comorbid deficits in language and motor coordination in such groups, and refine inventions that improve functioning across domains. The proposed project aims to improve the neuropsychological understanding of functional cerebral laterality for language and motor processing. Specifically, the shared neuronal processes underlying speech and motor praxis will be further investigated, alongside the impact of atypical lateralisation on language and motor abilities.
Dr. Robin Kramer (rkramer@lincoln.ac.uk)
perceptual chronometer' as a device which allows the measurement of temporal resolution. I would like to use this idea in order to explore the concept further. First, I am interested in whether temporal resolution varies with age, so comparing children, young, and older adults. Second, I plan to explore different manipulations (e.g., consuming sugar, caffeine, etc.) which might increase or decrease temporal resolution in adults.", 'Dr. Bonaventura Majolo (bmajolo@lincoln.ac.uk)
Ingroup cooperation is predicted to be an important factor affecting the outcome of between-group competition. However, it is not clear whether ingroup cooperation spontaneously emerges as a result of competition, it is due to group structure and composition (e.g. ingroup cohesion or familiarity between group members) and/or to policing (e.g. punishment of non-cooperative members). This project aims to investigate these unclear aspects of the relationship between ingroup cooperation and outgroup competition using sport teams. The data collection will focus on how team sport players behave during competitive games in a series of competitive matches organised in the sports hall at the University of Lincoln. This project is interdisciplinary in nature, involving researchers from sport and computer science.
Dr. Emile van der Zee (evanderzee@lincoln.ac.uk)
Word learning in the dog has so far focused on words referring to objects. In this project we will be looking at the dogs ability to distinguish between word meanings based on adjectives: big/small, and dark/light. Evidence in relation to word learning for words referring to objects has shown that the Border Collie is sensitive to size differences in objects (van der Zee et al, 2013). The visual system of the dog is also known to be able to distinguish between white/black, with the dogs colour vision being limited to the blue/yellow spectrum. These two pieces of information suggest that the potential for learning adjectives as suggested is present in the dog. The project involves training dogs to link non-sense words with patches showing size and light/dark differences. The successful candidate needs to have demonstrable experience in behavioural training with dogs.


Study Abroad | School of Psychology | University of LincolnMore Information
If you would like any further information on the study abroad programme please contact one of the following members of staff:
Also, please don't forget to visit the University of Lincoln International Office






PAC | Research | University of LincolnWhat We Do
The Cognitive Research Group is a collection of researchers at the University of Lincoln, who undertake research on a broad range of perceptual and higher cognitive functions by combining different methods such as eye tracking, electroencephalogram (EEG), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), physiological measurements (skin conductance response; heart rate variability) and functional Near Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS). Core research topics include Face perception (e.g., face recognition, face learning, social information conveyed in faces, and the use of automatic face recognition technology); Neural plasticity (e.g., neural changes after visual sensory deprivation and enriched environments); Technologies to improve perceptual functions and to support person-centred care in residential care (e.g., video games such as Eyelander and Cognitive Daisy); sleep (e.g., the role of REM sleep in directed forgetting of emotional words); human-dog emotion communication (e.g., to investigate emotional expression and perception in dogs, human-animal interaction); visual attention and process in human social cognition (e.g., how affective visual cues are processed in the brain).
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", '
Staff

Dr Robin Kramer

Prof Timothy Hodgson

Dr Simon Durrant

Dr Kay Ritchie

Dr Tessa Flack

Prof Kun Guo (Lead)

Dr Kirsten McKenzie

Dr Garry Wilson

Dr Petra Pollux

Dr Julia Foecker (Deputy)

Dr Sarah Sauve

Dr Umair Akram

Masters Modules
s Modules:", 'PSY9221M Research Methods in Perception and Cognition
PSY9226M From the lab to the world: Psychology Research in Practice
Tim is also the leader for the Masters in Psychological Research Methods programme as an opportunity for students to do research work with members of the cognition research group.
s Module:", 'PSY9247M Evolution and Human Social Behaviour
s Module: ", 'PSY9249M Brain Behaviour and Lifespan Development
School of Psychology Research Groups
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Forensic and Criminal Research Group
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Connect Online:
Connect with Usu200c
School of Psychology, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


ARIC | Research | University of LincolnEnriching Lives
s mission is to create a diverse and inclusive environment where community knowledge and academic expertise merge to produce evidence-based innovative professional approaches and services for enriching the lives of autistic people and those who support them throughout their lifespan.", 'About the Autism Research Innovation Centre
We are combining the diverse expertise of academic professionals in the fields of autism research, business, computer science, dog and animal-assisted interventions, education, health, human resource management, medical statistics, and psychology with the in-depth, first-hand experience of community leaders, community partners, and policy-makers, including governmental organisations, local government and public authorities, charities, and engagement groups.
Why Our Research Is Important
Our objective is to empower autistic communities by developing, evaluating, and cultivating modern, efficient, evidence-based initiatives and protocols to strengthen the connection between autistic people and those supporting them  from early childhood to late adulthood  and to enhance and maximise the rewards of their collaboration.
Ultimately, we envisage and realise practices, techniques, and technologies, which inherently enable and actively promote the organic creation of a society that cherishes and thrives on its diversity and inclusivity.
Our Research Is Different
Our work is grounded in the innovative principles of participatory action research and community-based participatory research, where we strategically involve all stakeholders to co-develop the stages of project design, data collection and dissemination, in order to break through the current boundaries of scientific- and public understanding of autism and of autistic individuals.
Using this framework, the multiple perspectives we adopt and combine, shed light onto various unique life experiences shared by autistic people from accessing additional support in education, through gaining novel opportunities by making the most of skill development programs and service provisions, to improving overall quality of life by finding and retaining employment. We draw on these experiences and research outcomes to inform policy development and re-assess current professional practices in the UK.

ARICs Organisational Structure
ARICs Board: Responsible for facilitating development, sharing information, monitoring and recording actions and progress in a strategic, complementary, robust, secure and consistent way.
Research Programme Leads (RPL): Responsible for developing and coordinating research projects.
Director: Responsible for the overall management and strategic development of the centre.

Dr Lesley Allinson
RPL, School of Psychology
Dr Paul Baxter
RPL, School of Computer Science
Dr Jenna Brough
Lead in Clinical Services, Psychology
Dr Niko Kargas
Director, RPL, School of Psychology
Prof Graham Law
RPL, School of Health & Social Care
Prof Kerstin Meints
RPL, School of Psychology
Dr John Mendy
RPL, Lincoln International Business School
Prof Daniel Mills
RPL, School of Life Sciences
Dr Michael Rasell
Lead in International Research Partnerships, School of Health & Social Care
Dr Matina Tsiora
Community Engagement Research Coordinator, School of Psychology

Academic Staff
Academic Staff
Dr Simon Durrant
School of Psychology
Dr Julia Foecker
School of Psychology
Miss Rebecca Hawkins
School of Sport and Exercise Science
Dr Aidan Hart
School of Psychology
Dr Leslie Hicks
School of Health & Social Care
Dr Kirsten McKenzie
School of Psychology
Dr Amanda Roberts
School of Psychology
Dr Lauren Smith
School of Psychology
Dr Emile van der Zee
School of Psychology
Dr Fenja Ziegler
School of Psychology

PhD Research Students
Miss Ana Maria Barcelos Guerra Pinto
School of Life Sciences
Miss Charlotte Cartledge
School of Psychology
Miss Greta Kerulo
School of Psychology
Mrs Shona Murphy
School of Health & Social Care
Miss Renad Yassin
School of Psychology
School of Psychology Research Groups
Forensic and Clinical Research Group
Psychologists in this group undertake research which is focused in applied settings and on clinical or forensic populations, concerned with psychological functioning related to clinical and forensic problems.
Perception, Action, and Cognition Research Group
The Perception, Action, and Cognition Research Group works across a broad range of issues including visual motion processes, emotion and memory, and the visual processing in dyslexic, autistic, and neurological populations.
Development and Social Behaviour Research Group
This group includes a team of developmental, social, and evolutionary psychologists who examine the development of motor, behavioural, and cognitive processes, and the social psychological processes affecting interpersonal, intergroup, and interspecies attitudes, cognition, emotion, and behaviour.
Connect Online:


Undergraduate Courses | School of Psychology | University of Lincoln


Impact &amp; Engagement | School of Psychology | University of LincolnGet Involved with Psychology
Outreach and public engagement describes the ways in which the activity and benefits of education and research in the School of Psychology are shared with the public. Engagement is a two-way process, involving interaction and listening, with the goal of generating mutual benefit.
Members of the School of Psychology are very active in organising events and showcasing our research at various different public science festivals and one-off science events. We have previouslyrun public events at venues such as Skegness Aquarium, the British Museum, and the Natural History Museum in London.
We keep in close contact with local schools and are happy to give one-off talks in schools about the science of psychology and the brain. If you are interested please get in touch withDrLesley Allinsonwho co-ordinates outreach activities in the School.
On this page you will find resources for teachers and prospective students, as well as details of projects and events that members of the public can get involved in.
Hear from our Students
"During my degree I completed a year-long social research placement at the Department for Education focusing on mental health, character, and wellbeing. The role covered a variety of key tasks including literature searching, contract management, report writing, carrying out qualitative and quantitative research, and much more! The placement really gave me the opportunity to apply things Id learnt in my degree so far but also to develop my skills further and learn new ones."
Lucy Gilbert, BSc (Hons) Psychology graduate and Research Officer at the Department for Education
Resources for Psychology Teachers
A knowledge exchange for teachers and educators in the UK delivering GCSE and A-Level Psychology. We aim to provide resources, advice, and foster discussions in order to develop curriculum and research skills.
Volunteering
We are always looking for people over the age of 18 and younger than 90 years old to take part in our research studies. We investigate a range of topics, including how we see, how we remember things, how we make decisions, how we change as we get older, how we pay attention to things around us, how our attitudes are formed and many more.
Students at the University of Lincoln can register an account on ourSONAexperiment management system and book into any studies you are eligible for and interested in.
Members of the public and members of staff at the university who are interested in taking part in our studies please contactDr Fenja Ziegler. 
Our youngest volunteers (babies and infants) are invited to the Lincoln Babylab which runs studies with infants throughout the year.
Summer Scientist
Summer Scientist is an annual event that is one of the University of Lincoln'slargest public engagement activities.It was first established in 2010and is currently lead by Dr Niko Kargas. Each year, we run a Summer Scientist week for children aged three to ten years old. Our event offers an inclusive environment where children coming from different backgrounds and having different interests have the opportunity to partake in a variety of fun activities and research studies while at the same time learn about human development and behaviour.
Academic researchers from across the University work alongside selected second-year Psychology students on data collection throughout the week. It is an opportunity for students to work on real and cutting-edge psychological research that is a step-up from their course based studies. This offers students a great opportunity to gain dedicated experiment base experience. The findings of these projects are used to inform real academic research and are published in peer-reviewed academic journals.
Each year we welcome more and more children to Summer Scientist, including many who have attended the event in previous years. Future events will feature many new academic research projects investigating topics such as the development of altruism, language, motor control, risk behaviours, sensory perception, cognition, and interactive educational technologies.
For regular updates on our next event and activities you can follow us on:
FacebookandTwitter
Eyelander Computer Game
Researchers from the University of Lincoln have teamed up with theWESC Foundationto create a new browser-based game called Eyelander, which aims to help children and young people with vision-loss to lead more independent lives.
The game was specifically designed for peoplewith visual field loss caused by Cerebral Visual Impairment (CVI)  which is usually the result of a brain injury  and it prompts the player to use their vision moreefficiently. The game requires players to move their eyes quickly around the screen tofind matching shapes and colours at different positions and it is punctuated with encouraging words to motivate the player.
When played regularly the game can improve peoplesperformance of everyday tasks such as navigating through a crowded space or reaching for items in a supermarket.
Project lead Timothy Hodgson, Professor of Cognitive Neuroscience, says:
Previous research has shown that visual search training can lead to significant recovery of sight following damage to visual centres of the brain in adults. The problem is these training programmes are just too boring to use with children.Our game will be a fun computer-based tool which will benefit children with visual field loss-holes in their vision due to damage to the brains visual pathways.This is an exciting research project which brings together expertise from diverse disciplines and puts this knowledge into practice in a way that could make a real difference to the quality of life of visually impaired children.
Tracy de Bernhardt Dunkin, Principal and CEO at the WESC Foundation, says:
This is a tremendously exciting development for WESC and the culmination of five years work to introduce learning and research around neurological visual impairment. We are delighted to be employing our first visual neuroscientist, supervised by the University of Lincoln.
Play 'Eyelander' Here



Explore Our Bitesize Psychology Videos
Our bitesize videos are designed to provide an insight into a wide range of different subject areas and topics. These videos can help give you a sense of the subject you might be thinking about studying.
Connect with Us


PHWRG | Research | University of LincolnWhat We Do
Our research group specialises in developing and applying contemporary psychological science to address health-related challenges. Our focus is on improving the interventions, services, and technologies offered to individuals experiencing psychological and/or physical health difficulties  and advancing understanding of the psychological processes that promote wellbeing and personally-meaningful behaviour change.
Research interests within the group are aligned to the UK mental health research agenda 2020-2030, namely: mental health for children and young people (goal 1), links between physical and mental health (goal 2), development of new interventions for mental health (goal 3), and improving choice and decision-making in routine care settings (goal 4). Our research group connects with the broader university theme of Health and Wellbeing. broader university theme of Health and Wellbeing. For the latest information on research activities within our group, please visit https://phew.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Staff

Dr David Dawson (Co-Lead)

Dr Nima Moghaddam (Co-Lead)

Dr Michael Baliousis (Deputy Lead)

Prof Amanda Roberts

Dr Roger Bretherton

Dr Kyla Pennington

Dr Mark Gresswell

Dr Petra Pollux

Dr John Hudson

Dr Kamila Irvine

Dr Kevin Butler

Ms Ania Dopierala

Mr William Burkitt

Ms Jenny Hamilton

Dr Hannah Merdian

Dr Susan Chipchase

Dr Sarah Wilde

Dr Jodie Stevenson

Ms Helen Kemp

Dr Teresa Garrod

Miss Laura Pellegrini
School of Psychology Research Groups
Cognitive Psychology Research Group
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Forensic and Criminal Research Group
Connect Online:
Connect with Usu200c
School of Psychology, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


SPRG | Research | University of LincolnWhat We Do
The Social Psychology Research Group conducts research on individuals emotions, thoughts and behaviours in diverse social contexts. Using a broad range of qualitative and quantitative methodologies, we aim to improve peoples personal and relationship wellbeing by enhancing our understanding of the antecedents and consequences of social perceptions and behaviours and the cultural contexts in which they are embedded. Primary areas of specialisation include social identities, relationships and adult attachment; gender and families, sexism, objectification and feminist theory; psychology of religion, moral judgements, justice beliefs and mortality awareness; body image, attractiveness and eating disorders; music and emotion regulation; social networks, organisations and digitalisation; intergroup relations, racism and citizenship. Our interdisciplinary research involves colleagues in sociology, social policy, anthropology, creative arts, business studies and health and social care. We receive European and local funding and work in collaboration with prominent scholars in the UK and internationally.
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", '
Staff

Dr Rachel Bromnick

Prof Ruth Gaunt

Dr Paul Goddard

Dr Nathan Heflick

Dr Ava Horowitz

Dr Patrick Hylton

Dr Tracey Thornborrow

Dr Annemieke Van den Tol

Dr Andre Soares

Dr Rhea Luana Arini

Dr Sarah Sauve

School of Psychology Research Groups
Cognitive Psychology Research Group
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Forensic and Criminal Research Group
Connect Online:
Connect with Usu200c
School of Psychology, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Labs | Research | University of LincolnWhat We Do
The Psychology Labs are used by the School of Psychology for research projects in areas such as forensic psychology, perception and cognition, development and social behaviour, and autism.
Students have access to equipment such as a dynamic 3D body scanner, eye-trackers, two EEG systems, a driving simulator, and a Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation system. The School also has a range of specialist labs; a Baby Lab, Sleep Lab, Molecular Lab, Motion Lab, and Phlebotomy and Physiology Lab, alongside dedicated testing booths for running computer or internet-based tasks. The labs and equipment are available to use as part of undergraduate and postgraduate research projects.
The labs are located in the purpose-built Sarah Swift building and are available as learning environments for students on the Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Forensic Psychology, Developmental Psychology and Research Methods courses.
Watch the video below for a guided tour of our facilities.

School of Psychology Research Groups
Cognitive Psychology Research Group
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Forensic and Criminal Research Group
Connect Online:
Connect with Usu200c
School of Psychology, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


School Staff | School of Psychology | University of LincolnSchool of Psychology Staff


