Saving Alexandria | Case Studies | University of LincolnSaving Alexandria
When Old Meets New
Alexandria  a historic Egyptian city founded by Alexander the Great and once considered the jewel of the Mediterranean  has for the past half century been facing ongoing decay.
A struggle between its symbolic Euro-Mediterranean heritage and distinctive spirit of place and conflicting economic and political agendas has resulted in the crumbling of its inspiring architecture as well as its vibrant culture. Recently, however, a leading international architect has been dedicating her work to revitalising and regenerating the city she once called home.
Starting with Fouad Street - the most potent symbol of Alexandrias grand history, with its elegant villas and antique shops  at the heart of the citys historic district, Dr Amira Elnokalys work aims to sympathetically repurpose the ancient Egyptian buildings for modern business use.
Dr Elnokaly, an Associate Professor in Sustainable Architecture at the University of Lincoln, has been working with Sigma Properties in Egypt for almost ten years in a bid to restore some of Alexandrias most impressive buildings, reinvigorate its culture, and create dynamic new business models to ensure the city thrives into the future.
Today, some of the oldest and most impressive buildings in Alexandria, although listed, have fallen into disrepair or worse, or have even been demolished to make way for modern hotels. Our work aims to inject a sense of life back into this important area of Egyptian culture, ensuring these old buildings are reused sympathetically.
Dr Amira Elnokaly
Associate Professor, Lincoln School of Architecture and the Built Environment
Many of the original retail spaces located in Alexandrias historic district struggled to attract enough business and subsequently closed down, while residential units were abandoned or rented at very low prices, making it very difficult for owners to maintain their buildings and their impressive heritage facades, with very little or no support from appropriate authorities. These factors caused a serious decline in real estate value in Alexandrias city centre, rendering investment in the area unfeasible.
To combat this decline, Dr Elnokaly began working with Sigma Properties to develop feasible business models for repurposed spaces within the historic buildings. These businesses attract a younger population by offering quality services that are carefully integrated into historic spaces, such as Fouad Streets impressive Opera Hall, to maintain their architectural value and artefact, while introducing a dynamic new concept within them.
As part of this bid to save Alexandrias culture, Sigma Properties now owns around half of the historic buildings in the Fouad Street area of the city. While many of the properties remain vacant until suitable business plans are developed, together with Dr Elnokaly they run workshops for architecture students and members of the public to highlight their own important work and encourage others to consider the significance and potential of historic buildings.
Research Impact Case Study Video
Dr Amira Elnokaly began working with Sigma Properties to develop feasible business models for repurposed spaces within the historic buildings, to help combat the decline that was taking place in the ancient city of Alexandria - a city she once called home.



Solve a Problem Like Malaria | Case Studies | University of LincolnHow To Solve a Problem Like Malaria
Developing Effective Health Interventions
According to the World Health Organisation, there were an estimated 219 million cases of malaria worldwide in 2017 and 435,000 deaths from the disease. Nine out of ten (93%) malaria deaths occurred in Africa and more than half of all deaths (61%) were children under five.
New vaccines offer hope for the future, but in the meantime antimalarial drugs remain the front-line medical intervention. However, prevention of infection by acting against the mosquitoes through bed-nets and insecticides is a major element in the fight against malaria.
Professor Chris Thomas, Global Chair in Water and Planetary Health at the University of Lincoln, specialises in modelling the transmission of vector-borne diseases like malaria by combining field ecology, remote sensing and geo-physical models with geographic information systems, spatial statistical and artificial intelligence computing.
A focus of his current work explores new methods for predicting the population dynamics of mosquitoes which transmit malaria in Africa, including how their spread is affected by climate change.
He is the Principal Investigator in the NERC-funded FLOODMAL project, an international collaboration deploying novel techniques to study malaria vector distribution on the Zambezi floodplain, a vast area with very high levels of malaria transmission in western Zambia. Professor Mark Macklin, Director of Lincolns Centre for Water and Planetary Health, is a co-researcher on the project.
Since 2001 there have been huge reductions in malaria through the global malaria elimination programme, explains Professor Thomas. But in some areas such as western Zambia prevalence remains very high, whereas in other areas that have almost eliminated local transmission, such as Zanzibar - where we also have a new research programme - medical services are finding it difficult to shift in a last few entrenched areas. It's in these challenging situations where we think our approach could make a real difference.
African malaria mosquitoes breed rapidly in open, shallow water left by rains, floods, and irrigated farmland. Malaria is often highly seasonal following the rains and water movement across the land, with mosquito population dynamics also affected by humidity and temperature. The impact of climate change on disease transmission is therefore a major concern for Professor Thomas and fellow scientists. Part of the puzzle is understanding how communities and services can best adapt to the public health consequences of these changes.
New methods of computer modelling using hydrological and hydraulic models of water distribution and flow combined with high resolution satellite imagery are being developed to predict and map, weeks in advance, the presence of water bodies where mosquitoes breed. The hope is that by understanding where water will be in relation to the distribution of human hosts, scientists can predict variation in the risk of malaria in fine detail across entire landscapes.
We want to help guide public health interventions. If we can inform medical services where transmission hotspots are likely to arise in advance, it will enable them to respond quickly and effectively on the ground with targeted prevention and treatment programmes.
Professor Chris Thomas
Global Chair in Water and Planetary Health
Professor Thomas added: With the annual floods on the Zambezi becoming less predictable due to climate variability, a mobile human population, and several species of mosquito vectors implicated in transmission, it is becoming increasingly difficult to plan interventions needed to eliminate the disease. To tackle this we are working with the Zambian health service and a multi-disciplinary team of researchers from Zambia, Canada and the UK. Were trying to predict transmission levels in this very dynamic landscape using our geographic-ecological techniques.
The team is taking big data approaches to studying disease transmission: new computing, biosciences and geographic technology allows them to do things that were practically impossible just a few years ago. Rapidly growing internet and mobile networks in Africa increasingly means information can now be disseminated quickly and easily. However, they still embark on many long 4x4 journeys as well, trapping mosquitos overnight in remote villages and wading in swamps to sample larvae!
Their interdisciplinary work is having a delivering valuable insights and having a major impact on the extremely complex issue of mapping and predicting the spread of malaria.
Photo credit: James Gathany
Research Impact Case Study Video
NERC-funded FLOODMAL project, is an international collaboration deploying novel techniques to study malaria vector distribution on the Zambezi floodplain, a vast area with very high levels of malaria transmission in western Zambia.



Research Facilities | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnResearch Facilities
Investing in Your Future
We understand the importance of giving you a strong foundation to help you achieve your aspirations, so we are constantly investing in our campus, buildings, and facilities to provide you with the best possible research and learning environment. In fact, we have invested more than 375 million in our Brayford Pool Campus in the last two decades.
You can take advantage of the high-quality facilities and specialist research spaces across our buildings on campuses. This includes scientific laboratories, state-of-the-art clinical suites, specialist arts studios, and access to advanced research equipment and resources.
Science and Health
Research and learning across our science and health-related programmes take place in innovative and purpose-built facilities, which are based on our Brayford Pool Campus and our Riseholme and Holbeach sites and give you the opportunity to work with expert academics, technicians, and industry partners.
Clinical Suites
The clinical suites in the Sarah Swift Building are used to simulate real hospital and home environments, and feature the latest in patient simulation technology, providing a hub for medical research and research-informed teaching.
Holbeach Campus
The campus is home to the National Centre for Food Manufacturing, offering specialist facilities and industry-standard equipment, including analytical laboratories with a test kitchen and sensory testing suite, a technician training centre, and processing facilities.
Human Performance Centre
Thesespecialist laboratories feature modern equipment in order to undertake physiological and biomechanical assessments. The labs are equipped for both the teaching of students, academic research, and also external consultancy with businesses and elite athletes.
Isaac Newton Building
Our Isaac Newton Building oers access to workshops and computer laboratories, an electrical systems laboratory, and a biofuels laboratory. It also houses industry-standard machinery, turbines, and additional teaching and research laboratories. 
Joseph Banks Laboratories
The Joseph Banks Laboratories provide cutting-edge facilities for the Schools of Chemistry, Life and Environmental Sciences, and Pharmacy. Students have access to scientific laboratories, and technologies including Mass Spectrometry, Imaging Modalities, and Chromatography.
Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building
Our brand-new, purpose-built Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building features lecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite with consultation rooms, a prosection anatomy suite, and a bio-medical and health sciences library.
Psychology Labs
Psychology students have access to equipment such as a dynamic 3D body scanner, an eye-tracker, Psychophysics, Molecular lab, and driving simulator to use in both their own research or as part of one of the many research groups in the School.
Riseholme Campus
The campus is home to the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, Lincoln Agri-Robotics, and Lincolns Centre for Doctoral Training in Agri-Food Robotics. It has a working farm, woodlands, grasslands, and watercourses for research into agricultural robotics, ecology, and hydrology.
Arts, Social Sciences, and Humanities
Our specialist facilities covering the arts, social sciences, and humanities give you the opportunity to indulge your curiosity, strengthen your critical thinking, and test and develop a range of creative methodologies to challenge preconceptions and forge new understandings of who we were, who we are, and who we can be.
Bespoke Spaces
We offer a dedicated CAD Lab of high-end PCs equipped with CAD software, a construction science lab, multi-materials workshops, fully equipped studios, and specialist printing.
Bloomberg Lab
Business students have access to the Bloomberg Terminal, which is designed to help industry professionals make better-informed investment decisions by oering the latest market news along with historical data and an international network to communicate securely and reliably. 
Lincoln Conservation
The University is home to Lincoln Conservation, a company that combines research, teaching, and commercial expertise, and you can also benefit from a range of specialist facilities and work spaces, including our conservation and restoration laboratories.
Enhancing Creativity
We offer a range of facilities for creative practitioners, including fashion workshops, editing suites, audio recording, a sculpture and 3D workshop, a MakerLab, a photography studio, printmaking facilities, and computer suites.
Sound and Vision
You have access to TV and radio studios, audio production, a multi-track recording studio, video editing, animation and multimedia suites, and industry specification cameras, lights, and audio recording equipment.
Lincoln Arts Centre
Lincoln Arts Centre provides a hub of creative performance where students can learn and practise their art in the 450-seat professional working theatre, large industry-standard studio spaces, and a workshop for building sets and props.
Great Central Warehouse Library
The Universitys Great Central Warehouse Library gives you access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections. The library is open 24/7 at key times during the academic year, so is available when you need it most.
Flexible Learning Spaces
As well as our specialist research sites and high-quality facilities, which can provide subject-specific resources for your studies, you also have access to a range of flexible learning spaces across our buildings on campus.
This includes dedicated study spaces for postgraduate research students, seminar rooms, lecture theatres, and workshops, alongside social spaces, breakout areas, and learning lounges, which are ideal for meeting and collaborating with fellow students and researchers.
Discover More
At Lincoln, our researchers are collaborating through a range of dynamic research institutes, centres, and groups, producing high-quality research and groundbreaking studies that are addressing some of the most pressing issues that are facing us in the world today.
Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Our research institutes, centres, and groups are home to pioneering new studies which bring together expertise from across the University and beyond
Our Research Groups
Research Repository
 published research using our research repository.", 'Search the Repository
Research at Lincoln
Discover more about our research focus and the groundbreaking studies taking place at Lincoln.
Explore Our Research


Mobile Arts for Peace | Case Studies | University of LincolnMobile Arts for Peace
Promoting Peace in Post-Conflict Rwanda
Rwanda is a country still living with the impact of the 1994 genocide that saw upwards of 800,000 people killed over a 100-day period. An estimated ten per cent of children lost one or both parents during the genocide and more than 100,000 children now live alone or are the sole carers for their siblings as a result of their parents being killed or imprisoned.
Thanks to a project exploring how disciplines like dance, drama, and music can empower young people to be a driving force for peacebuilding, the arts are now having a significant impact on communities across Rwanda.Led by Professor Ananda Breed from the University of Lincolns School of Creative Arts, Mobile Arts for Peace (MAP) is using the arts as a platform for young people to share their experiences and communicate their ideas for conflict prevention within their own communities.
Working with partner organisations such as the Institute of Research and Dialogue for Peace (IRDP), Foundation Tolerance International, and a number of UK and international universities, MAP has created a toolkit for educators to teach the Performing Arts as well as offering training sessions to enable them to deliver residential workshops for young people.
By using the arts as a way to draw on personal experiences, MAP is providing safe, progressive spaces for dialogue and shared problem-solving for peacebuilding, as well as developing skills in music, dance, and drama.
Professor Ananda Breed
Professor in Theatre, Lincoln School of Creative Arts
Professor Breed added: We are already seeing the positive effects of this approach in the increased academic performance of students, improved communications between students and their parents, enhanced public speaking skills, and a contribution to overall learning processes."
The Rwanda Education Board (REB) has also integrated the MAP methodology into the national Curriculum Framework in music, dance, and drama through training of trainers and MAP clubs.
Another important strand of the project has been the integration of mental health awareness and support in all MAP activities, to help participants deal with their own emotions and experiences and offering an outlet to share their stories.
As well as the more traditional arts, participants are also being given the opportunity to learn other skills such as filmmaking. As part of a recent MAP workshop in the Eastern Province, a Filmmaking for Peace Workshop led by renowned filmmaker Eric Kabera explored how objects and environments tell stories. The group was able to learn basic filmmaking skills from lighting and camera techniques to editing, and four of the shorts created were later showcased as part of the Hollywood event at the international Rwanda Film Festival.
MAP is now working in all five provinces of Rwanda, across 25 schools serving approximately 300 teachers and trainers as well as 2,500 young people. Teams have also been operating in Kyrgyzstan, Indonesia, and Nepal, with thousands of young people participating in a range of arts-related projects. To find out more about the wider Mobile Arts for Peace project, visit theblog site.
Research Impact Case Study Video
Mobile Arts for Peace (MAP) is using the arts as a platform for young people to share their experiences and communicate their ideas for conflict prevention within their own communities, working across several provinces in Rwanda and involving hundreds of teachers and thousands of young people and their families.



Research Open Datasets | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnResearch Open Datasets
Making Our Research Accessible
Making research outputs and datasets easily accessibleis at the heart of our Open Research and Open Data commitment at the University of Lincoln. Alongside the infrastructure that we have developed to provide open access to our publications, we are supporting our researchers in sharing their research datasets through our Research Repository.
s Library and with our academics to define and implement DataManagement Plans. They also provide expert advice about routes to publication and open access policies for all types of research outputs, including research datasets.", 'Search the full LincolnResearch Repository


Rurality | University of LincolnIn this section
Located in a rural region, the University of Lincoln is alert to the particular challenges and opportunities facing non-urban communities in the UK and around the world. Our research on rurality encompasses a broad spectrum of issues, including rural health and care; agriculture and food manufacturing, from farm to fork, with a particular focus on robotics and other advanced technologies; and the rural economy, examining issues such as productivity, green supply chains, logistics and the circular economy, and small and microbusinesses. Lincoln researchers are also actively addressing the ways in which societal challenges, such as migration, affect rural communities.
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
shine a light' on the unacceptable health inequities that exist across the rural-urban divide and to find innovative ways of reducing or ideally eliminating that inequality.", 'The institute brings together world-leading specialists, conducting research across a range of rural health related concerns, ranging from infectious disease epidemiology, HIV, oral health, and emergent response analysis through to sustainable remote health care delivery solutions, meta-governance approaches, and m-health technological innovation.
Find out More

Agricultural Resilience to Coastal Flooding
At the University of Lincoln, experts in agriculture, soil science, and rural economics are spearheading efforts to understand the risks our farmers face from coastal flooding, and ensure that they are protected, prepared, and equipped for the future.

Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
The Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT) is a specialist research institute that aims to support and enhance productivity, efficiency, and sustainability in food and farming.
Researchers are engaged in the development of technologies which add value or solve challenges across the food chain. One of theInstitutes core aims is to connect academic expertise with partners in industry to pursue world class research and address real-world challenges, advancing state-of-the-art agri-food technology and improving the bottom line for businesses.
Find out More
Bridging the Urban-Rural Divide 
A team of leading economic development specialists have produced a comprehensive guide on how to set up and run high-tech digital hubs in remote and rural locations which might otherwise suffer from a lack of digital infrastructure.

Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research (L-CAS)
The Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research specialises in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems, especially mobile robots and robotic manipulators.
Areas of application include agri-food, healthcare, intelligent transportation, logistics, nuclear robotics, service robotics, and space robotics.
Find out More
The Future of Farming
In the future, farming and food production will be transformed by efficient new robotic systems, and researchers at the University of Lincoln are at the forefront of this exciting research.
Related Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Catchments and Coasts
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems (L-CAS)
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT)
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH)
Marketing and Supply Chain (MaSC)
Psychological Health and Wellbeing
Social Psychology


Research Impact Magazine | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnChanging the World
Through our research  conducted by hundreds of academics from across four colleges and dozens of specialist research institutes, centres, and groups  we are striving to change society for the better, while meeting our aspirations to become thought leaders engaged in the pursuit of excellence.
We are living through challenging and uncertain times. The events of 2020 have transformed society in unprecedented ways, affecting how we all live today and in the future. At Lincoln, a key focus remains unchanged. We still believe that research is at the heart of what it means to be a university. You can read more about some of our most recent research in the latest edition of our Research Impact magazine. You can also download previous editions of the magazine.
Research Impact Magazine
Issue 03, 2020
In this edition of our Research Impact magazine, we highlight some of the research that the University of Lincoln is currently undertaking to address the distinct challenges we face during the COVID-19 crisis, outlining a number of groundbreaking projects and hearing from academics who are offering new perspectives on virology and disease.
We also look beyond the current crisis and highlight research that continues to have a meaningful impact on the health and wellbeing of our local, national, and international communities.
Research Impact - Issue 03, 2020 (PDF)
Download Previous Editions
Research Impact - Issue 01, 2018 (PDF)
Research Impact - Issue 02, 2019 (PDF)

Discover More
Research at Lincoln
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better - whether that is connecting individuals and communities through shared local heritage, or contributing to international efforts to address global grand challenges such as climate change.
Our Research Environment
At the University of Lincoln, we understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Institutes, Centres and Groups
Researchers at Lincoln collaborate through a dynamic range of Institutes, Centres, and Groups which together form a rich, collegiate environment where research carried out by our academics, students, and partners is nurtured.


Health and Wellbeing | University of LincolnIn this section
Producing purposeful knowledge with real-world impact drives the University of Lincolns research in health and wellbeing. Working with partners around the world, our academics are developing new insights and solutions to a wide range of health-related challenges, including rural health and care, healthy ageing, and pre-hospital care.
Lincoln experts lead multi-disciplinary studies in areas as diverse as planetary health and anti-microbial resistance; proton therapy, diagnostics, and biomedical engineering; improving health service efficiency; diabetes; the health benefits of companion animals; and the role of the arts, culture, and heritage in promoting individual and community wellbeing.
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
shine a light' on the unacceptable health inequities that exist across the rural-urban divide and to find innovative ways of reducing or ideally eliminating that inequality.", 'The institute brings together world-leading specialists, conducting research across a range of rural health related concerns, ranging from infectious disease epidemiology, HIV, oral health, and emergent response analysis through to sustainable remote health care delivery solutions, meta-governance approaches, and m-health technological innovation.
Find out More

City Expansion Creating Sites for Disease
Findings from an interdisciplinary research project has indicated that urban expansion is creating the conditions for infectious diseases to emerge and spread around the world.
Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU)
CaHRUs mission is to increase peoples health and wellbeing by improving the quality, performance, and systems of care across the health, social, and third sector care services through our world-leading interdisciplinary research with service users and health service professionals and organisations.
We work closely with our Healthier Ageing Patient and Public Involvement (HAPPI) group which provides invaluable patient input into the development of new studies and supports existing studies.
Find out More
Leading the Fight Against Diabetes
Scientists at the University of Lincoln are spearheading a number of major research projects studying the causes, development and complications of diabetes, and examining potential treatments for the condition, which currently affects more than four million people in the UK.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre (LiSReC)
s aim is to help improve sleep and the benefits of sleep in the population. Our research focuses on the links between sleep and wellbeing, understanding the biological benefits of sleep, and application of this knowledge to improve wellbeing.", 'The Centre benefits from a number of advanced facilities for sleep research in a dedicated sleep lab and have particular interests in the role of sleep in memory, cognition and neural reorganisation, and sleep in society, including how we treat sleep disorders.
Find out More

Improving Outcomes for Cancer Patients
A new medical imaging system designed to help oncologists and medical physicists more accurately plan proton beam therapy treatment could provide a positive beam of hope for cancer patients. 

Autism Research Innovation Centre
The Autism Research Innovation Centre (ARIC) is focused on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research. ARICs mission is to create a diverse and inclusive environment where community knowledge and academic expertise merge to produce evidence-based innovative professional approaches and services for enriching the lives of autistic people and those who support them throughout their lifespan.
We work to develop, evaluate, and cultivate evidence-based initiatives and protocols to strengthen the connection between autistic people and those supporting them.
Find out More
At the Centre of an Epidemic
Major insights into the evolving and dynamic nature of the HIV epidemic is helping to increase life expectancies and influence public policy on drug therapies.

Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research (L-CAS)
The Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research specialises in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems, especially mobile robots and robotic manipulators.
Areas of application include agri-food, healthcare, intelligent transportation, logistics, nuclear robotics, service robotics, and space robotics.
Find out More
How to Solve a Problem like Malaria
Professor Chris Thomas, Global Chair in Water and Planetary Health, is exploring new methods for predicting the population dynamics of mosquitoes which transmit malaria in Africa, including how their spread is affected by climate change.
Poultry Probiotics
In an age of intensive farming, animal health and high standards of vigilance on farms is vital to human health. That's why scientists are developing new methods and technologies to monitor and enhance animal health.

Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health (LCWPH)
The Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health focuses on solving the most pressing global environmental and societal problems emerging from the worlds largest rivers.
s specialisms include climate change impacts on extreme floods and droughts, flood-related contamination from metal mining and processing, and water-borne and vector-borne diseases affecting humans and animals.", 'Find out More
A Bug's Life
Lifestyle and genetics can play a significant role in building immunity against virus and disease. A key to understanding how may lie in an unlikely source: insects.
Centre for Creativity and Culture (C4CC)
The Centre for Culture and Creativity is a think and do tank, researching and leading on cultural programmes and creativity.
It is part of the University of Lincolns commitment to, and investment in the civic and cultural life of the county, and the national and international conversation on creativity.
Find out More

Addressing Healthcare Inequalities Head-on
Pioneering research into community-centred health reveals how the simplest solutions can often be the most effective in the treatment of vulnerable members of society.

Child Friendly Research Network
The interdisciplinaryChild Friendly Research Network provides academics from across the University of Lincoln with the opportunity to come together to develop work around children, young people, and families.
The network explores interdisciplinary solutions to the problems affecting children and young people, and aims to establish mechanisms for young peoples participation within research which help to shape research agendas that matter to them.

Related Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare
Autism Research Innovation Centre (ARIC)
Cancer and Ageing
Centre for Creativity and Culture (C4CC)
Child Friendly Research Network
Chem Bio-Interface
Clinical Pharmacy and Practice
Cognitive Psychology
Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU)
Development andBehaviour
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation
Drug Discovery, Design, and Delivery
Extra-Sonic Practice
Forensic andCrime
Healthy Ageing Research Group (HARG)
Laboratory of Vision Engineering(LoVE)
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems (L-CAS)
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health (LCWPH)
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH)
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre (LiSReC)
Medical Instrumentation Centre
Mental Health, Health and Social Care (MH2aSC)
Microbiology and Biotechnology
Performance
Primary and Secondary Education Cluster
Psychological Health and Wellbeing
Social Psychology
Wellbeing



Heritage | University of LincolnIn this section
Lincoln is one of the great medieval cities of Europe, and enjoys world-class heritage attractions in the form of its cathedral, castle, and International Bomber Command Centre. Working with these exceptional local resources and partners worldwide, University of Lincoln researchers are deeply engaged in the study, conservation, and interpretation of history and heritage, and in understanding how heritage can contribute to individual and community wellbeing.
Areas of particular expertise include digital heritage and archives; museum guides and accessible design for exhibitions and galleries; conservation of historic objects; and medieval studies.
Medieval Studies Research Group
TheMedieval Studies Research Groupbrings together academics, archivists, librarians, postgraduate students, and postdoctoral researchers with interdisciplinary interests both in the medieval period itself and in the later interpretation and representation of the medieval past.
The group has a strong relationship with the wider scholarly and professional community including Lincoln Cathedral Library and Archives, with whom they collaborate in both teaching and research.
Find out More

Digging Up the Past
School pupils have been getting their hands dirty (virtually, that is) as part of series of free, fun online archaeology-themed workshops that have been running this summer.
Heritage Archives Network
The Heritage and Archives Network at the University of Lincoln is a forum for those teaching, researching, or working in archives and the heritage sector more broadly. The network shares information, debates contemporary issues, and explores answers to big questions.
By working collaboratively, the network aims to amplify the impact of archive and heritage-related projects, promote the development of archival collections within the University and beyond, and raise their profile for research and teaching.
Find out More

A Thousand Lost Voices Preserved
A living archive of 1,000 previously lost voices telling tales of the shared experiences, bravery, and sacrifice of those who lived through the aerial bombing campaigns in the Second World War has been digitised and preserved for future generations.
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc)
This group brings together work on parliaments and legislatures at the University with the aim of developing the University of Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research and teaching in parliamentary studies.
s aim is to enhance research, facilitate impact, and promote engagement with parliaments and legislatures in the UK and beyond. The group reflects a wide range of experience and expertise in parliamentary studies and associated fields, together with a variety of methodological approaches.", 'Find out More

Making Art Accessible to All
Professor Anne Chick, Head of the School of Design at the University of Lincoln, has led an innovative new project to explore the best ways of designing and curating exhibitions to make them more accessible to blind and partially sighted people.
Related Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
Global and Transregional Studies
Heritage Archives Network
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc)
Medieval Studies Research Group
Nineteenth Century Research Group


Digitalisation | University of LincolnIn this section
The fourth industrial revolution  the application of artificial intelligence, machine learning and big data  will fundamentally challenge and change the nature of work in the 21st century. University of Lincoln research is at the forefront of understanding and shaping our response to Industry 4.0, to ensure that society benefits from technological advances.
Areas of focus include the future of farming, agri-food technology, and the implications of digitalisation for food security; robotic hardware, and software and their application in healthcare settings. Our researchers are also leading developments in autonomous systems and digital heritage.

Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
The Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT) is a specialist research institute that aims to support and enhance productivity, efficiency, and sustainability in food and farming.
Researchers are engaged in the development of technologies which add value or solve challenges across the food chain. One of theInstitutes core aims is to connect academic expertise with partners in industry to pursue world class research and address real-world challenges, advancing state-of-the-art agri-food technology and improving the bottom line for businesses.
Find out More
Digital Technology and Food Manufacturing
From using satellites to track asparagus crops, to measuring the lean meat percentage of pork using a high-tech camera, companies across the 28.2bn UK food manufacturing supply chain are embracing emerging technologies in new and interesting ways.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
s growth and meet the challenges of the future.", 'Core research areas include robotics and automation,food safety and microbiology, advanced food processing technologies, and food supply chain development, reflecting the priorities of the food manufacturing sector.
Find out More

3D-Printed Prosthetic Arm for Toddlers
Researchers at the University of Lincoln are pushing the boundaries of what is possible when it comes to state-of-the-art prosthetics for small children, previously thought too young for bespoke mechanical limbs.

Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research (L-CAS)
The Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research specialises in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems, especially mobile robots and robotic manipulators.
Areas of application include agri-food, healthcare, intelligent transportation, logistics, nuclear robotics, service robotics, and space robotics.
Find out More
Robots in Care Homes
Computer scientists at the University of Lincoln are part of a major international robotics project  ENRICHME  which aims to help elderly people stay independent and active for longer.
Charlotte Scott Research Centre for Algebra
Charlotte Scott Research Centre for Algebraexamines algebraic theory and aims to contribute to our growing understanding of this mathematical field.
Algebraists in Lincoln conduct research on finite and infinite groups and their automorphisms, Lie algebras, profinite and locally finite groups, topological groups, permutation groups, polynomial algebra, and algebraic number theory.
Find out More

Bridging the Urban-Rural Divide 
A team of leading economic development specialists have produced a comprehensive guide on how to set up and run high-tech digital hubs in remote and rural locations which might otherwise suffer from a lack of digital infrastructure.

Research Centre for Computational Physics
The Research Centre for Computational Physics undertakes research encompassing computational and theoretical physics as well as applied mathematics of nano-structured soft matter, solid/soft matter interface, molecular biophysics, and biologically inspired systems.
Find out More
Heritage Archives Network
The Heritage and Archives Network at the University of Lincoln is a forum for those teaching, researching, or working in archives and the heritage sector more broadly. The network shares information, debates contemporary issues, and explores answers to big questions.
By working collaboratively, the network aims to amplify the impact of archive and heritage-related projects, promote the development of archival collections within the University and beyond, and raise their profile for research and teaching.
Find out More

Related Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Charlotte Scott Research Centre for Alegbra
Cognitive Psychology
Collaboration Laboratory (co_Lab)
Development and Behaviour
High Performance Computing for Science, Technology and Environmental Research (HiPSTER)
Interactive Technologies Laboratory (intLab)
Laboratory of Vision Engineering (LOVE)
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems(L-CAS)
Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology (LIAT)
Machine Learning Group (Mlearn)
Medical Instrumentation Centre
National Centre for Food Manufacturing(NCFM)
Psychological Health and Wellbeing
Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group (RIEG)



Case Studies | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnResearch Impact Case Studies
Solving Real-world Problems
co-creation' of knowledge has led to better research. By cooperating with regional and international partners we can contribute to developing our local economy and community and also address pressing global challenges.", 'The impact of our research is showcased in our submission to the Research Excellence Framework 2021, covering 22 widely different subject areas and demonstrating the breadth of work across many aspects of society, culture, the environment, the economy, and beyond.
Mobile Arts For Peace
Mobile Arts for Peace (MAP) works with young people to use the arts as a way to share their experiences and communicate their own ideas for peacebuilding and conflict prevention within their own communities.
A Thousand Lost Voices Preserved
A living archive of 1,000 previously lost voices telling tales of the shared experiences, bravery, and sacrifice of those who lived through the aerial bombing campaigns in the Second World War has been digitised and preserved for future generations.
Improving Outcomes for Cancer Patients
A new medical imaging system designed to help oncologists and medical physicists more accurately plan proton beam therapy treatment could provide a positive beam of hope for cancer patients. 
Saving Alexandria: When Old Meets New
A leading international architect from the University of Lincoln has been working with Sigma Properties in Egypt for almost ten years in a bid to restore some of Alexandrias most impressive buildings and reinvigorate its culture.
Bridging the Urban-Rural Divide
A team of leading economic development specialists have produced a comprehensive guide on how to set up and run high-tech digital hubs in remote and rural locations which might otherwise suffer from a lack of digital infrastructure.
What is Research Impact?
an effect on, change or benefit to the economy, society, culture, public policy or services, health, the environment or quality of life, beyond academia'.", 'This impact includes, but is not limited to, an effect on, change, or benefit to:
Our research, as highlighted in these case studies, is doing just that, changing lives and addressing real-world problems.
Digital Technology and Food Manufacturing
From using satellites to track asparagus crops, to measuring the lean meat percentage of pork using a high-tech camera, companies across the 28.2bn UK food manufacturing supply chain are embracing emerging technologies in new and interesting ways.
Stabilising the National Grid
s carbon footprint and support our strained National Grid.", 'Digital Technology and Food Manufacturing
Professor Chris Thomas, Global Chair at Lincoln, is the Principal Investigator in the NERC-funded FLOODMAL project, an international collaboration deploying novel techniques to study malaria vector distribution on the Zambezi floodplain.
Putting People at the Heart of Politics
Political engagement and policy is generating more debate than ever before. The University of Lincoln is attempting to enhance understanding of the relationship between the British public and the processes which shape political decision-making.
Supporting Wellbeing Through Archaeology
Rural residents across Europe have been taking part in a project led by the University of Lincoln which aims to boost community wellbeing by exploring how making new archaeological discoveries can positively impact rural inhabitants.


Concordat for Researchers | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnConcordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
ResearchCareers in Higher Education
The University of Lincoln became a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (otherwise known as the Researcher Development Concordat) in February 2020. A copy of the letter publicly committing to the principles and signatory responsibilities of the Concordat can be found on theu202fResearcher Development Concordat website.
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support for research careers in UK higher education. The Concordat not only helps to improve environment and culture within which research is conducted, but also recognises the role of research and innovation in delivering the UKs industrial and economic strategies. The Concordat sets out clear standards that research staff can expect from the institution that employs them, as well as their responsibilities as researchers. Stakeholders include: researchers, managers of researchers, institutions, and funders.
HR Excellence in Research Award
Following an external review in January 2023, the University of Lincoln was successful in retaining the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award for a further three years. The award is an important mechanism for implementing the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. In retaining this award, we have demonstrated our commitment to supporting researchers career development as well as improving research culture and working conditions.
Core Principles
The Concordat is structured around three core principles, which are underpinned by obligations for the four groups of stakeholders:
Actions Plans and Reports
The University of Lincolns HR Excellence in Research Award action plan and two-year report can be read below.
The next review for the HR Excellence in Research Award will take place in January 2026.
The University of Lincolns HR Excellence in Research Award action plan and two-year report can be read below.
HR Excellence in Research Action Plan 2023 - 2026
HR Excellence in Research Two Year Report - 2023 (PDF)
University of Lincoln Context for Action Plan
HR Excellence in Research Action Plan 2020 - 2022
University of Lincoln Concordat Annual Report 2021 (PDF)
University of Lincoln Concordat Annual Report 2022 (PDF)
Researcher Development Concordat
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is an agreement between stakeholders to improve the employment and support for researchers and researcher careers in higher education in the UK.
Read the Concordat
Researcher Development Programme
The Doctoral Schools Researcher Development Programme offers academic, professional, and personal development through a number of training workshops and events.
Explore the Programme
Research at Lincoln
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better - whether that is connecting individuals and communities through shared local heritage, or contributing to international efforts to address global grand challenges.
Explore Our Research
Contact Information
Lauren Blackwell,Researcher Development Officer
Email:lblackwell@lincoln.ac.uk
Helen Rice, People Change and Policy Manager
Email:hrice@lincoln.ac.uk


Political Engagement | Case Studies | University of LincolnPolitical Engagement
Putting People at the Heart of Politics
Political engagement and policy is generating more debate than perhaps ever before. The University of Lincoln is attempting to enhance understanding of the relationship between the British public and the processes which shape political decision-making.
Dr Catherine Bochel from the School of Social and Political Sciences is one of only five researchers in the UK selected for the House of Commons Academic Fellowship Scheme, which grants her rare access to Parliament. As a Fellow, Dr Bochel has unique access to the Parliamentary estate and House services and she is working with the House to build public understanding of Parliament, and inform, evaluate and enhance the Houses work and that of its Members. Dr Bochel makes regular visits to Westminster and is working alongside Parliamentary staff and politicians to explore how effectively Parliament engages with the public in its decision-making processes.
s research examines whether the concept of 'procedural justice'  ensuring that a fair process has been followed  can be used as a framework to examine mechanisms for public engagement with Parliament. She began her research by scoping the nature and extent of public engagement with Parliament. The second phase will develop a framework to measure the degree of voice and participation. This will involve interviews with MPs, peers, clerks and other parliamentary officials.", 'Dr Bochel said: "Parliament is keen to encourage the public to get involved in politics, and people can now do this in a variety of ways. However, it is important that when they come into contact with Parliament their experience of the process is as positive as possible."
In a liberal democratic system people may not get everything they ask for, so their treatment by the system and experience of it is very important; final decisions are made by elected representatives, so the public must be able to see that the decision-making process is fair and transparent.
Dr Catherine Bochel
Reader in Policy Studies
Dr Bochels study emerged from her previous research on e-petitions, which has helped to shape the government and Parliament e-petitions system, including the introduction of a Petitions Committee and a range of new measures not dependent on signature thresholds.
The issue of political participation is a hot research topic for academics in the University of Lincolns School of Social and Political Sciences. Other experts at Lincoln explore youth participation, and have written books on the issue, as well as the devolution of powers to local authority levels, and how the UKs security forces are scrutinised.
Research Impact Case Study Video
Political engagement and policy is generating more debate than perhaps ever before and the University of Lincoln is attempting to enhance understanding of the relationship between the British public and the processes which shape political decision-making.



How Digital Hubs Can Bridge the Urban-Rural Divide | Case Studies | University of LincolnBridging the Urban-Rural Divide
Building Digital Hubs
A team of leading economic development specialists at the University of Lincoln has produced a comprehensive guide on how to set up and run high-tech digital hubs in remote and rural locations which might otherwise suffer from a lack of digital infrastructure.
Digital hubs are physical spaces with access to superfast broadband, alongside other community and business focussed services  from providing meeting and networking space to offering opportunities to test new technologies. The project has major significance in Lincolnshire, where only two per cent of people are employed in digital jobs in both the digital and non-digital sectors, which is half the national average.
The guidelines are produced by the Lincoln team who make up part of CORA (Connecting Remote Areas with digital infrastructure and services)  an international project bringing together a consortium of 18 organisations from seven European countries bordering the North Sea. Part-funded by the European Unions Interreg North Sea Region programme, CORA is dedicated to stimulating digital infrastructure, services, and skills in rural areas to make them more attractive to business and families.
"Our research has shown that digital hubs are potential drivers for positive change and can be a starting point to overcome these digital divide challenges," says Liz Price, Senior Research Fellow. "That is why we're trying to encourage more local authorities to invest in these hubs, and more residents and businesses to access their facilities."
Digital hubs really could help people from rural areas to feel much less isolated and better connected. They can transform the way rural communities live and work.
Liz Price
Senior Research Fellow
The team found that rural businesses have previously identified difficulty in accessing appropriate external IT training, trouble recruiting people with appropriate digital skills, and the existing workforce often lacks sufficient digital skills. They also conducted an in-depth study of several existing digital hubs located across Europe and analysed the benefits they bring to their local communities. The new guide details the logistics and benefits of establishing a new hub and can be accessedonline.
Research Impact Case Study Video
Economic development specialists at the University of Lincoln have produced a comprehensive guide on how to set up and run high-tech digital hubs in remote and rural locations which suffer from a lack of digital infrastructure.



Public Engagement | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnSharing the Benefits
The University of Lincoln is committed to public engagement with research. Research is fundamental to our mission as a university - this includes sharing the benefits of research with the wider public and creating opportunities for people to get involved.
Public engagement in research is a two-way process which can involve interaction, participation, and learning. It spans a wide variety of activities - from public lectures and showcase events, to members of the public taking party directly in real research projects.
s National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE).", 'You can find out more about the University of Lincoln's approach by reading our Public Engagement with Research Strategy (PDF).
The PEARL Project
The University's Public Engagement with Research team is headed by archaeologistCarenza Lewis, Professor for the Public Understanding of Research. The team leads the PEARL Project (Public Engagement for All with Research at Lincoln) funded by UKRI.
The PEARL project has established a series of initiatives and platforms that now take place on an annual cycle to enhance the University of Lincolns public engagement with research activities, support, resources, recognition, opportunities, and strategies so it can fully deliver on its potential to engage, inform, benefit, and inspire wider publics, ultimately increasing both research quality and value to society.
Find out More


Digging Up the Past
School pupils have been getting their hands dirty (virtually, that is) as part of series of free, fun online archaeology-themed workshops.
Transforming the Lives of Young Fathers
Young fathers are often seen to be a risk and even a problem in todays society, stigmatised and oftenexcluded from essential professional support services.
Researchers at the University of Lincoln are leading a project that is adopting a father-centered approach to tackling these issues, examining thelived experiences and support needs of young menin a bid toimplement a more compassionate and truly participatory support environment that will benefityoung fathers, their families, and wider civil society.
Find out More

A Thousand Lost Voices Preserved
A living archive of 1,000 previously lost voices telling tales of the shared experiences, bravery, and sacrifice of those who lived through the aerial bombing campaigns in the Second World War has been digitised and preserved for future generations.
Mobile Arts for Peace
Thanks to a project exploring how disciplines like dance, drama, and music can empower young people to be a driving force for peacebuilding, the arts are now having a significant impact on communities across Rwanda.Led by Professor Ananda Breed from the University of Lincolns School of Fine and Performing Arts, Mobile Arts for Peace (MAP) works with young people to use the arts as a way to share their experiences and communicate their own ideas for peacebuilding and conflict prevention within their own communities.
Find out More

Discover More
Research at Lincoln
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better - whether that is connecting individuals and communities through shared local heritage, or contributing to international efforts to address global grand challenges such as climate change.
Our Research Environment
At the University of Lincoln, we understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Award-winning Industry Links
The University of Lincoln is recognised as setting a blueprint for excellence in our pioneering approach to working with industry. We have built a reputation for understanding and responding to the needs of business, forging strong industry links to address specific skills gaps and real-world commercial challenges.


Institutes, Centres and Groups | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnOur Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Bringing Together Research Expertise
Researchers at the University of Lincoln collaborate through a dynamic range of institutes, centres, and groups, which together form a rich, collegiate environment where research carried out by our academics, students, and partners is supported and nurtured.
Whether exploring major health challenges in rural settings, developing technological advancements in agriculture, addressing growing environmental concerns, or tackling social exclusion and inequality in contemporary society, these groups are hubs for pioneering new studies which bring together expertise from across the Universityand beyond.
Nationally Recognised Institutes and Centres
Our research institutes provide a wide range of opportunities for research, championing creativity and encouraging ideas that can challenge the status quo, while also promoting inclusion and diversity, and pursuing cross-disciplinary, collaborative research with rigour and integrity.
Eleanor Glanville Institute
Supporting and stimulating greater diversity across the University in both staff and students and research and teaching.
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems
Specialising in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Conducting research with a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
Addressing the challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities around the world.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact research designed to advance the food industry at all points in the supply chain.
Eleanor Glanville Institute
Supporting and stimulating greater diversity across the University in both staff and students and research and teaching.
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems
Specialising in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Conducting research with a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
Addressing the challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities around the world.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact research designed to advance the food industry at all points in the supply chain.
Autism Research Innovation Centre
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Centre for Computational Physics
Undertaking research encompassing computational and theoretical physics as well as applied mathematics.
Centre for Creativity and Culture
Acting as a dynamic force, C4CC is a think and do tank, researching and leading on cultural programmes and creativity.
Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Addressing the pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Charlotte Scott Centre for Algebra
Examining algebraic theory and aiming to contribute to our growing understanding of this mathematical field.
Community and Health Research Unit
With a mission to enhance peoples health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities.
Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice
Investigating and improving crime and justice outcomes through research, consultancy, and knowledge exchange.
Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Exploring ecological justice measures to address current environmental emergencies.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre
Establishing Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research in parliamentary and legislative studies.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
University Research Centres
Explore our key research centres which are undertaking high-quality studies that are contributing to our goal of establishing an international reputation for challenge-led, co-created, impactful research and knowledge exchange that addresses global and regional priorities.
Autism Research Innovation Centre
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Centre for Computational Physics
Undertaking research encompassing computational and theoretical physics as well as applied mathematics.
Centre for Creativity and Culture
Acting as a dynamic force, C4CC is a think and do tank, researching and leading on cultural programmes and creativity.
Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Addressing the pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Charlotte Scott Centre for Algebra
Examining algebraic theory and aiming to contribute to our growing understanding of this mathematical field.
Community and Health Research Unit
With a mission to enhance peoples health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities.
Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice
Investigating and improving crime and justice outcomes through research, consultancy, and knowledge exchange.
Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Exploring ecological justice measures to address current environmental emergencies.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre
Establishing Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research in parliamentary and legislative studies.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
Eleanor Glanville Institute
Supporting and stimulating greater diversity across the University in both staff and students and research and teaching.
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems
Specialising in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Conducting research with a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
Addressing the challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities around the world.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact research designed to advance the food industry at all points in the supply chain.
Autism Research Innovation Centre
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Centre for Computational Physics
Undertaking research encompassing computational and theoretical physics as well as applied mathematics.
Centre for Creativity and Culture
Acting as a dynamic force, C4CC is a think and do tank, researching and leading on cultural programmes and creativity.
Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Addressing the pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Charlotte Scott Centre for Algebra
Examining algebraic theory and aiming to contribute to our growing understanding of this mathematical field.
Community and Health Research Unit
With a mission to enhance peoples health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities.
Lincoln Centre for Crime and Justice
Investigating and improving crime and justice outcomes through research, consultancy, and knowledge exchange.
Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Exploring ecological justice measures to address current environmental emergencies.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre
Establishing Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research in parliamentary and legislative studies.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
Research Groups A-Z
Explore by subject area our range of innovative research groups at the University of Lincoln, which are conducting high-quality research and working across disciplinary boundaries.
Arts and Humanities for Health
(Re) Constructing Musics
Collaboration Laboratory (co_Lab) Research Group
Contemporary Theatre Making
Extra Sonic Practice
Intercultural Performance
School Design Research Group
Sustainable Built Environments
Community Organisation Research Group
Lincoln Economics, Accountancy and Finance Research Group
Lincoln Smart Circular Sustainable Chains Lab
Marketing Research Group
Regional Innovation and Enterprise Research Group
Responsible Management Research Group
UNESCO Chair
Visitor Economy Research Group
Child-friendly Research Network
Creativity and Cultural Industries
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
Global and Transregional Studies Research Group
Heritage Archives Network
Law and Society Research Group
Lincolnshire Police Network
Lincolnshire Learning Lab
Primary and Secondary Education Cluster
Tertiary Education Group
Animal Behaviour, Cognition, and Welfare Research Group
Cancer and Ageing Research Group
Clinical Pharmacy and Practice Research Group
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation Research Group
Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Mental Health, Health and Social Care Research Group
Microbiology and Biotechnology Research Group
Performance Research Group
Wellbeing Research Group
Medieval Studies Research Group
Nineteenth Century Research Group
21st Century Research Group
Catchments and Coasts Research Group
Chem Bio-Interface
Evolution and Ecology Research Group
Development and Social Behaviour Research Group
Forensic and Clinical Research Group
Perception, Action and Cognition Research Group
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Social Psychology Research Group
High Performance computing for Science, Technology and Environmental Research (HiPSTER)
Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence Research Group
Interactive Technologies Laboratory (intLab) Research Group
Laboratory of Vision Engineering(LoVE)
Lincoln Climate Research Group
Lincoln Soils Research Group
Machine Learning Group (Mlearn)
Novel Analytical Methodologies
Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Research Group
Defence and Security Research Network
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE) Research Group
Conflict and DisasterResearch Group (CONDIS)
Violence in Society Research Group
Discover More
Here at Lincoln, we are proud of our supportive research environment and collaborative culture, which is helping our staff and students to produce high-quality research that is transforming lives and tackling some of the major challenges we are facing in the world today.
Research Environment
We understand the importance of providing the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Our Environment
Research Repository
You can find theses, journal articles, book chapters, and papers from our academics, many of whom are working across our research institutes, centres, and groups.
Search the Repository
Staff Search
Find out more about our academics and their research specialisms by searching our staff directory.
Search the Directory


Improving Outcomes for Cancer Patients | Case Studies | University of LincolnImproving Outcomes for Cancer Patients
OPTIma (Optimising Proton Therapy through Imaging)
An internationally renowned expert in image engineering based at the University of Lincoln has developed new medical imaging technology that could revolutionise cancer treatment. Professor Nigel Allinson MBE, Distinguished Professor of Image Engineering at Lincoln, is leading the 3.3 million OPTIma (Optimising Proton Therapy through Imaging) project, which has been funded by the UKs Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
s vital structures such as in the head or near the spinal cord.", 'Protons are different to X-rays in that they travel a set distance, which is determined by their initial energy, and they do not travel in straight lines. X-rays lose energy gradually whereas protons lose most of their energy right at the end of their journey.
In treatment terms this means that there should be no dose beyond this point, meaning that we can more specifically target the tumour site with less radiation absorbed by the surrounding healthy tissues.
The work means that three-dimensional images of a patients anatomy can now be created using protons rather than x-rays, improving the quality and feasibility of proton beam therapy for cancer sufferers around the world.
Professor Nigel Allinson MBE
Distinguished Professor of Image Engineering
The technology will be used to help provide adaptive and highly personalised treatment planning and monitoring for patients with difficult-to-treat cancers.
The OPTIma project is being run in collaboration with the University of Manchester, University of Birmingham, The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, and University Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust.
Research Impact Case Study Video
One of the most complex medical imaging systems ever developed, the 3.3 million OPTIma project is making it possible to provide more effective radiotherapy treatment for thousands of cancer sufferers.



Sustainable Development Goals | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnResearch Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals
As a University created by its community for its community to reduce inequalities, we understand the vital role education and scholarship play in ensuring that in our rapidly-changing world, no one is left behind. We support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, framing our research and collaborations in ways that can contribute to delivering peace and prosperity for people and planet.
s most pressing problems. They recognise that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth  all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests.", "Find out more about research at the University of Lincoln, and how it supports the United Nations' 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, by clicking on the individual Sustainable Development Goals icons below.", '
Research Institutes
Lincoln Institure for Agri-food Technology (LIAT)
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH)
Research Centres
Autism Research Innovation Centre (ARIC)
Centre for Creativity and Culture (C4CC)
Charlotte Scott Research Centre for Algebra
Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU)
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems (L-CAS)
Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health (LCWPH)
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc)
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre (LiSReC)
Medical Instrumentation Centre
National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM)
Research Centre for Computational Physics
Research Groups
(Re)Constructing Musics
19th Century Research Group
21st Century Research Group
Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare
Cancer and Ageing
Chem-Bio Interface
Child-friendly Research Network
Clinical Pharmacy and Practice
Community Organisation Research Group (CORU)
Conflict and Disaster Research Group (CONDIS)
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
Development and Social Behaviour (DASB)
Development, Inequality, Resilience, and Environments (DIRE)
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation
Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery
Evolution and Ecology
Extra-Sonic Practice
Forensic and Clinical Research (FCRG)
Global and Transregional Studies
Healthy Ageing Research Group (HARG)
Heritage Archives Network
High Performance Computing for Science, Technology and Environmental
Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence
Interactive Technologies Lab (intLab)
Intercultural Performance
Labarotory of Vision Engineering (LoVE)
Lincoln Climate Research Group
Lincoln Economics and Finance (LEAF)
Lincoln Soils Research Group
Machine Learning Group (Mlearn)
Marketing and Supply Chain (MaSC)
Medieval Research Studies Group
Mental Health, Health and Social Care (MH2aSC)
Microbiology and Biotechnology
Perception, Action and Cognition (PAC)
Primary and Secondary Education Cluster
Regional Innovation and Enterprise (RIEG)
Responsible Management (RM)
Sustainable Built Environments
Sustainable Energy and Power Systems
Tertiary Education Group
UNESCO Chair research
Visitor Economy (VERG)
Back to Icons


Changing the World through Research | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnChanging the World through Research
Our Global Professors
Professor Mini C. Saajis the Head of Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence (IDSI) research group within the School of Engineering. She has been recognised for her skills in engineering robotic technologies and is an international expert in designing control systems for robots operating in extreme environments. Her interests range from outer space to the operating theatre.
Professor Elizabeth Sklaris Professor in Agri-Robotics at the University of Lincoln and is also a Professor of Robotics in the Department of Engineering at Kings College London. She worked as a software engineer in industry for more than 10 years, primarily at MIT/Lincoln Lab, designing and building real-time interactive systems, before holding academic positions in the US at Columbia University and the City University of New York.
Professor Chris Thomasspecialises in modelling the transmission of vector-borne diseases by combining field ecology, remote sensing, and geo-physical models with geographic information systems, spatial statistical, and artificial intelligence computing.A focus of his current work is the exploration of new methods for predicting the population dynamics of mosquitoes, including how their spread is affected by climate change.


Professor Simon Parsonsis building on his research with stroke patients, which aims to prevent further strokes through the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI). His primary interestlies in what AI can do to create bespoke solutions, where technology can be used to make more personalised treatment recommendations for patients.
Professor Frank Tanseris a world-leading specialist in epidemiology. He was one of the founders of the African Centre for Health and Population Studies, which was set up in 1998 to study the HIV epidemic in rural South Africa, and over the last 20 years has combined geo-spatial and epidemiological methods to provide major insights into the evolving and dynamic nature of the HIV epidemic.
Professor Mark Gussyis an internationally-recognised specialist in community-centred health, with a clinical background in oral health. While serving rural communities in Australia, he developed an interest in understanding the causes of the health inequalities he witnessed among different communities that fall outside of the mainstream health and social care systems.
Professor Charbel Jose Chiappetta Jabbouris a Visiting Global Professor in Sustainable Operations and Supply Chain Management. His research has examined contemporary issues in sustainable operations, such as employees involvement in sustainable practices, sustainable supply chains, and ecological innovations. He has also looked at how emerging technologies can broaden the scope for supply chains to become truly sustainable.
Professor Elizabeth Kirkqualified as a solicitor in Scotland before moving to Canada for further study. She is an expert in international environmental law, specifically marine governance, and is keen to explore the ways in which current world issues are linked and how we may need new laws and new practices to tackle the environmental problems facing us today.
Professor Louis Kotzeis a Senior Visiting Professorial Fellowspecialising in environmental law and governance with an emphasis on the global dimensions of socio-ecological justice, law and the Anthropocene, and Earth system law. He is an internationally-recognised scholar and speaks regularly at major conferences examining topics of climate change and environmental harm.


Our Distinguished Professors
Professor Nigel Allinson MBE holds the Distinguished Chair of Image Engineering and is a world-leading expert in imaging technology, image sensors and systems, computer vision, and pattern recognition. He has produced the worlds largest silicon CMOS medical imager and led the team behind the 3.25 million OPTIma project, which is improving Proton Beam Therapy for cancer treatments.
Professor Stephanie Donald is Distinguished Professor of Film in the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities. She leads research and impact activities in the Centre for Culture and Creativity. Her research covers comparative studies in world cinema and art history in European and Asian contexts, childrens media, migration, place-branding and film, and contemporary visual arts and art history in China.
Professor Steve McKayis Distinguished Professor in Social Research in the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities. An economist by background, he specialises in the analysis of large datasets, transforming the way we define poverty. His findings have informed government and helped to shape the way poverty is measured, particularly for children and the elderly. He has also conducted research into the third sector, family change, and social security.

Discover More
Find out more about the diverse areas of research carried out by the University of Lincoln.
Research at Lincoln


Stabilising the National Grid | Case Studies | University of LincolnStabilising the National Grid
Tackling the Global Impact of Climate Change
Reducing the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere is one of the key objectives for mitigating the global impact of climate change.
s carbon footprint and support our strained National Grid.", "The Refrigeration Research Centre (RRC) is the first facility of its kind in the world. Harnessing cutting edge technology, it precisely models the essential dynamics of a typical supermarket and is the location for pioneering research being carried out in collaboration with global retailer Tesco and specialist Internet of Things company IMS Evolve.Mass refrigeration is responsible for around 12 per cent of the UK's carbon emissions. With hundreds of thousands of commercial refrigeration systems across the UK, they place significant pressure on the National Grid and represent up to one third of a typical retailer's energy cost.", 'Stabilising the Grid is a strategic national priority, which is addressed not just from the supply side of energy but from stabilising demand too - so-called Demand Side Responses (DSR). Maintaining a reliable and efficient network of commercial refrigeration systems is absolutely imperative, as supermarkets use them not only to keep our food and drink chilled but also to prolong the shelf life of produce.
Successfully integrating food refrigeration systems into DSR mechanisms would have national and internationally relevant impact, and our research has shown that this can be done while controlling food quality and temperature control limits.
Professor Simon Pearson
Director of LIAT/Professor of Agri-Food Technology
This research  funded by Innovate UK as part of a Knowledge Transfer Network  by the University of Lincoln, IMS Evolve, Tesco Stores Ltd, and The Grimsby Institute, explores how to modify refrigeration control in proportion to the available energy on the National Grid, while also optimising food temperature control.The researchers from LIAT and the University of Lincoln's School of Engineering established complex algorithms taking into account a number of key criteria, including estimation of the mass and thermal transfer rate of food in each refrigerator and numerical weather predictions. In addition, the team worked with IMS Evolve who are Internet of Things specialists and optimised the considerable IT architecture and data flows needed to handle the enormous data scale.The academic paper is available to read in fullonline
Research Impact Case Study Video
s carbon footprint and support our strained National Grid.", '


A Thousand Lost Voices Preserved  | Case Studies | University of LincolnA Thousand Lost Voices Preserved
Tales of Bravery and Sacrifice
A living archive of 1,000 previously lost voices telling tales of the shared experiences, bravery, and sacrifice of those who lived through the aerial bombing campaigns in the Second World War has been digitised and preserved for future generations.
The project was undertaken in partnership with the Lincolnshire Bomber Command Memorial Trust and forms part of the memorial exhibition at the International Bomber Command Centre in Lincoln.
Professor Heather Hughes, who led the project, said: What weve done here at the University of Lincoln as part of the International Bomber Command Centre project is unique. We have amassed a vast collection of content that has never been assembled before. In addition to the aircrew, it includes the experiences of women, ground personnel, and minority groups who are sometimes forgotten.
This archive tells the story of the bombing war and it represents a social history rather than a military one, telling tales of shared suffering and common humanity. It embraces a truly international perspective and provides a valuable snapshot of our history.
Professor Heather Hughes
Interim Co-Head of Arts, Culture and Heritage
The archive work was realised with a Heritage Lottery Fund grant, and the team carried out more than 1,000 interviews with those who were directly affected by the bombing war, many of whom served in Bomber Command and who have sadly since passed away.
In addition to the interviews captured, the archive consists of personal documents, such as photographs, diaries, letters, and logbooks. There are over 3,000 such items.
The collection, archived in perpetuity, will continue to grow as more items are shared with the team.
Research Impact Case Study Video
The living archive tells the story of the bombing war, telling tales of shared suffering and common humanity. It forms part of the memorial exhibition at the International Bomber Command Centre in Lincoln.



Supporting Rural Well-being  | Case Studies | University of LincolnDigging Up the Past
Supporting Rural Well-being Through Community Archaeology
Thousands of rural residents across Europe have been takin part in a community archaeology project led by the University of Lincoln.
The initiative, Community Archaeological in Rural Environments  Meeting Social Challenges (CARE MSoC), is led by Lincolns Professor Carenza Lewis and aims to boost community wellbeing, combining interdisciplinary research between archaeologists and psychologists to explore how making new archaeological discoveries about local history can positively impact rural inhabitants.
Participating villages across the Czech Republic, Netherlands, and Poland will locally dig and excavate hundreds of one-metre square test pits and evaluate their findings with archaeologists.
The impact of the excavations on individuals and communities in Europe will be analysed at local, national, and international levels. The project results will be shared with heritage policymakers and practitioners by project partners including the European Archaeological Council, the Cultural Heritage Agency of the Netherlands, and the UKs National Trust, and will help to shape and build future community archaeology projects in the UK and internationally.
Project lead Professor Carenza Lewis explains I am really excited about this project because I have seen the positive impact of community test pit projects in the UK, so I am very pleased we will now be able to extend this elsewhere in Europe.
By improving the capacity for participative public archaeology projects in rural communities to instil new skills, raise aspirations, enhance self-esteem, and extend social networks while making new discoveries about communities shared histories, I hope that the outcomes of this project will enrich lives and support wellbeing in rural communities.
Professor Carenza Lewis
Professor for the Public Understanding of Research
The international project will utilise expertise from psychological, archaeological, and digital humanities specialists from across Europe, and funding is provided by four national research councils through the European Commission. The overarching objective is to help the heritage sector to improve life in rural communities.
CARE MSoC builds on similar participative public archaeology projects led by Professor Lewis in eastern England, in which local volunteers uncovered new finds revealing the impact of the Black Death while also developing new skills, knowledge, interests, connections, confidence, and aspirations for the future.
In addition, new discoveries about villages long-term histories on similar projects in the UK have generated wider social impacts, improving social mobility, strengthening social cohesion, enriching lives, and increasing opportunities for fulfilling locally-based voluntary activity. CARE MSoC will investigate how these wider benefits of participating in local archaeology projects can be achieved in European countries beyond the UK.
Research Impact Case Study Video
The Community Archaeological in Rural Environments  Meeting Social Challenges (CARE MSoC) project aims to boost community wellbeing, combining interdisciplinary research between archaeologists and psychologists to explore how making new archaeological discoveries about local history can positively impact rural inhabitants.



Research Environment | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnResearch Environment and Culture
Encouraging Excellence, Supporting Success
At the University of Lincoln, we understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for pursuing research that can help our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Our supportive and inclusive research culture, where collaboration and knowledge exchange is fostered through a range of specialist institutes, schools, and policy initiatives, remains the bedrock of our success, while major investments in new buildings and state-of-the-art research facilities ensure that we nurture creativity and deliver impactful research that addresses regional and global priorities.
Eleanor Glanville Institute
The Institute aims to support and stimulate greater diversity and has developed resources to guide and support inclusive cultures, environments, and experiences for staff, students, and wider communities.
Explore the Institute
Lincoln Impact Literacy Institute
The focus is on developing meaningful and sustainable approaches to academic and institutional practice, research culture, and professional development.
Explore the Institute
Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies
The Institute offers fellowship and travel schemes for academic staff, alongside development activities for researchers to enhance their knowledge and networks.
Explore the Institute
Supporting Our Students
The Doctoral School
s Doctoral School provides a focal point for our vibrant community of postgraduate researchers, offering student support, training programmes, and opportunities to share experiences across the wider research community at Lincoln.", 'Research Studentships
Our postgraduate students are an integral part of our research community and we regularly provide opportunities to work with our expert academics on exciting research projects through our range of studentships.
Maintaining High Standards of Integrity
We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of our research.We do this by supporting good conduct and helping to prevent misconduct, upholding the commitments outlined in the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, which provides a comprehensive national framework for good research conduct.
The University has developed a code of practice for research and a set of policies designed to encourage the completion of studies of the highest quality, to meet our ambitions as set out in our Strategic Plan 2022-27.
Read More About Ethics and Integrity at Lincoln
Specialist Facilities
You can take advantage of the high-quality facilities and specialist research spaces we offer across our buildings on campuses to help support your research, including scientific laboratories, state-of-the-art clinical suites, specialist arts studios, and access to advanced research equipment and resources.
Achieving Your Ambitions
The University is a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, setting out clear standards that research staff can expect from the institution that employs them.
The Concordat is an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support for research careers in UK higher education. It not only helps to improve the environment and culture within which research is conducted, but also recognises the role of research and innovation in delivering the UKs industrial and economic strategies.
Read More About the Concordat
Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Undergraduate students at Lincoln have the opportunity to gain hands-on research experience, develop transferable skills, and even contribute to new knowledge through our competitive bursary scheme, where they can work alongside experts on a range projects across all disciplines.
Research Insights
s staff directory.", 'The Policy Hub
The Hub features the latest insights, evidence, and commentary from Lincoln researchers, through blogs, policy briefs, and policy guidance.
Explore the Hub
Research Repository
Our research repository features journal articles, book sections, conference papers, and theses completed by researchers at Lincoln.
Search the Repository
Staff Directory
Find our more about our academics and the groundbreaking research they are undertaking at Lincoln.
Search the Directory


Communities | University of LincolnIn this section
The University of Lincoln is an institution founded by and for its communities, and committed to working with them in the development of new knowledge. A signatory to one of the first Civic University Agreements in the UK, the University of Lincoln is applying its research expertise to a wide range of areas with community relevance, locally, nationally, and internationally.
These include arts, justice, and migration; place-making and future cities; parliamentary democracy and community engagement; young fathers, parenthood, and play streets; and community archaeology, the heritage economy, and understanding medieval communities.
Centre for Creativity and Culture (C4CC)
The Centre for Culture and Creativity is a think and do tank, researching and leading on cultural programmes and creativity.
It is part of the University of Lincolns commitment to, and investment in the civic and cultural life of the county, and the national and international conversation on creativity.
Find out More

Digging Up the Past
School pupils have been getting their hands dirty (virtually, that is) as part of series of free, fun online archaeology-themed workshops.
Medieval Studies Research Group
TheMedieval Studies Research Groupbrings together academics, archivists, librarians, postgraduate students, and postdoctoral researchers with interdisciplinary interests both in the medieval period itself and in the later interpretation and representation of the medieval past.
The group has a strong relationship with the wider scholarly and professional community including Lincoln Cathedral Library and Archives, with whom they collaborate in both teaching and research.
Find out More

Transforming the Lives of Young Fathers
Researchers at Lincoln are working on a new study into the lived experiences and needs of young fathers in a bid to develop a compassionate and truly participatory social policy and support environment for members of society that are often stigmatised or deemed a risk.
Global and Transregional Studies Research Group
The Global and Transregional Studies Research Group brings together an interdisciplinary group of scholars who share research interests in international, transregional, and global studies.
Scholars in the group are developing research and publication projects on a wide variety of topics,including Pan-European cultural circulations, the material histories of Asia and Africa, urban and architectural histories of the Caribbean and Latin America, North American histories, histories of architecture in the Global North, and transnational histories of empire, sexuality, gender, and political history.
Find out More
Addressing Healthcare Inequalities Head-on
Pioneering work by an internationally-recognised specialist in community-centred health is delivering a fascinating insight into the intricacies of the three-way interaction between a child, the adults they depend on, and healthcare professionals.
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc)
This group brings together work on parliaments and legislatures at the University with the aim of developing the University of Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research and teaching in parliamentary studies.
s aim is to enhance research, facilitate impact, and promote engagement with parliaments and legislatures in the UK and beyond. The group reflects a wide range of experience and expertise in parliamentary studies and associated fields, together with a variety of methodological approaches.", 'Find out More

 Mobile Arts for Peace
Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU)
CaHRUs mission is to increase peoples health and wellbeing by improving the quality, performance, and systems of care across the health, social, and third sector care services through our world-leading interdisciplinary research with service users and health service professionals and organisations.
We work closely with our Healthier Ageing Patient and Public Involvement (HAPPI) group which provides invaluable patient input into the development of new studies and supports existing studies.
Find out More
When the Camera Often Lies
Passport style photographs are not a reliable way to validate a childs identity at border control or in child protection cases, according to a new study into the facial identification of infants.
Child Friendly Research Network
The interdisciplinaryChild Friendly Research Network provides academics from across the University of Lincoln with the opportunity to come together to develop work around children, young people, and families.
The network explores interdisciplinary solutions to the problems affecting children and young people, and aims to establish mechanisms for young peoples participation within research which help to shape research agendas that matter to them.



Autism Research Innovation Centre
The Autism Research Innovation Centre (ARIC) is focused on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research. ARICs mission is to create a diverse and inclusive environment where community knowledge and academic expertise merge to produce evidence-based innovative professional approaches and services for enriching the lives of autistic people and those who support them throughout their lifespan.
We work to develop, evaluate, and cultivate evidence-based initiatives and protocols to strengthen the connection between autistic people and those supporting them.
Find out More
Related ResearchInstitutes, Centres, and Groups
21st Century Research Group
AutismResearch Innovation Centre (ARIC)
Centre for Creativity and Culture (C4CC)
Child Friendly Research Network
Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU)
Community Organisation Research Group
Conflict and Disasters (CONDIS)
Contemporary Theatre Making
Development and Behaviour
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Drug Discovery, Design, and Delivery
Extrasonic Practice
Forensic and Crime
Global and Transregional Studies
Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence
Intercultural Performance
Law and Society
Lincoln Economics and Finance Research Group (LEAF)
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH)
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc)
Lincolnshire Learning Lab
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre (LiSReC)
Medieval Studies Research Group
(Re) Constructing Musics
Social Psychology
Tertiary Education Group
Visitor EconomyResearch Group (VERG)


Research at Lincoln | Home | University of LincolnResearch at Lincoln
Creating Brighter Futures
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better. Working across sectors and disciplines and alongside regional, national, and international partners, our academics are engaged in groundbreaking studies that are challenging the status quo and making a tangible difference to the world around us.
To fulfil the ambitions of ourStrategic Plan 2022-27, we need to continue on this positive trajectory, establishing greater scale and quality and ensuring that our research continues to address local and global priorities, focusing on our key strengths and framing our research and collaborations in a way that helps to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Our Research Strengths
Agri-food Technology

Net Zero

History and Heritage

Rural and Coastal Health

Security and Defence

Agri-food Technology

Net Zero

History and Heritage

Rural and Coastal Health

Security and Defence

Research Spotlight
A Healthy Approach
The University of Lincoln has secured a 10.9 million grant from UK Research and Innovation to help tackle place-based inequalities in rural and coastal communities through an innovative approach to health and wellbeing research.
Our Research Institutes and Centres
Whether improving productivity in the food supply chain, developing technological advancements for agriculture, or addressing place-based health inequalities across the rural-urban divide, our research institutes and centres are home to pioneering new studies which bring together expertise from across the University and beyond to produce research that is changing the world.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
With a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability, LIAT is engaged in research designed to make a difference across the food chain.
Visit LIAT Website
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
NCFM aims to progress high-impact food sector focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain. 
Visit NCFM Website
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
LIIRH conducts world-class interdisciplinary research to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities locally, nationally, and internationally.
Visit LIIRH Website
Explore All Our Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Research Environment and Culture
We understand the importance of providing staff and students with a supportive and collaborative research environment for undertaking studies that can make a real difference to communities around the world.
Forging Strong Industry Links
Collaboration is at the heart of the Universitys strategy. At Lincoln, we are recognised as setting a blueprint for excellence in our pioneering approach to working with industry. Our unique relationships with companies such as Siemens Energy, Santander, and the Lincolnshire Co-op demonstrate our innovative industry-engaged approach, which has been acknowledged through a series of national awards.
s most pressing problems.", 'Research Excellence Framework 2021
Results from the most recent national Research Excellence Framework (REF), which is a system for measuring research excellence in higher education institutions in the UK, revealed that more than three quarters of Lincolns research was judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading.
Latest Research News


Digital Technology and Food Manufacturing | Case Studies | University of LincolnDigital Technology and Food Manufacturing
The Next Steps for Industry
From using satellites to track asparagus crops, to measuring the lean meat percentage of pork using a high-tech camera, companies across the 28.2bn UK food manufacturing supply chain are embracing emerging technologies in new and interesting ways.Now, experts say taking advantage of digital technologies is "vital to the prosperity of the UK food industry" requiring immediate action, and a new report has identified three different "digital food strands to encourage take up of such technology: real-time resource efficient production; a resilient and productive food supply chain; and digital technologies to improve consumer engagement.The brief for stakeholders has been prepared by academics from the University of Lincoln's Internet of Food Things (IoFT) initiative, with Professor Simon Pearson as Principal Investigator, and Loughborough University's Centre for Sustainable Manufacturing and Recycling Technologies (SMART).The 15-page briefing document, entitled 'Digital Food Briefing Document: digital technologies for improving productivity in food manufacturing
s digitalised meat processing plant and Barfoot's asparagus tracking methods are discussed, as is the new emerging food supply chain actors such as Gousto  one of the UK's leading recipe kit providers.
Actors across the food manufacturing supply chain are evolving their practices to reduce waste, meet the food security challenge, and address changing consumer needs, aided by the emerging technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0).
Professor Shahin Rahimifard
Director of the Centre for SMART
The briefing document concludes by outlining the current challenges presented by digital technologies and suggests nine "next steps" for the industry.
Steve Brewer, IoFT Network Co-ordinator, added: "The elusive goal of greater productivity can be found in a number of pioneering innovations in the food sector, these now need to be scaled up in order to reap the full potential of digitalisation.We hope that this report can prepare a pathway for successful digitalisation in the food sector.
The full Digital Food Briefing Document can be downloaded via the on theIoFT website. It can also be found on theCentre for SMART webpage.
Research Impact Case Study Video
Experts say taking advantage of digital technologies is vital to the prosperity of the UK food industry, resulting in a report aimed at business leaders and policymakers interested in the cutting-edge ideas for increasing productivity through digitalisation.



Supporting your Research | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnSupporting your Research
A Supportive Environment
The University of Lincoln provides rich and varied support for research across the institution. There arekey academic and support roles dedicated to different disciplines in each College,as well ascentral roles that support bid writing, enterprise, ethics and Intellectual Property.
These staff are critical to helping us provide a friendly, supportive and academically challenging research environment. We aim to provide the necessary support atthe differentstagesofyourresearchcareer path, from post-doctoral andEarly Career Researchers, through to our research chairs and professors.
The Research and Enterprise Committeeoversees the development of research activity and works to maintain the intensiveresearch culture and infrastructure across the University. There is support from academic and professional staff across the institution. This Committee also deals with all elements of the Universitys Strategic Plan which relate to enterprise, including employer engagement, knowledge transfer and exchange, incubation, employability, graduate enterprise, and IP and academic enterprise.
Early Career Researchers
At the University of Lincoln, we ensure that new academics, and those making the transition from postdoctoral research, receive the guidance and support they need to establish themselves as independent and confident researchers. Early Career Researchersare at the centre of our Research Plan, in recognition of the vital contribution they make to our diverse research environment and to ensuring our continued growth and success through innovative research projects.
The University of Lincoln is committed to the Vitae Concordat regarding the development of academic careers and aims to ensure that there is consistency of approach and support for researchers across our four Colleges. To this end, we provide assistance toCollege Research Centresand Groupson the establishment of local practices for the support of, and investment in, Early Career Researchers. This is underpinned by tailored personal and professional development programmes wherever posible. Students can join our Early Career Researcher Forum and join in dialogue, discussion and debate and find information on funding, bid writing, as well as how tojoinpeer-to-peer mentoring and support activities.
Research and Industrial Partnerships Team
The University of LincolnsResearch and Industrial Partnerships teamprovides guidance, advice and information on funding opportunities, research bids and contractual advice.They provide expert services in research funding and support to colleagues including:
They offer regular staff development and training events on finding research funding, research grant development and EU funding.
Director of Research and EnterpriseDr Stephanie MaloneyT: +44 (0)1522 837876E:smaloney@lincoln.ac.uk

Head of Research and Industrial PartnershipsPilar PousadaSolinoT: +44 (0)1522 835087E:ppousadasolino@lincoln.ac.uk

Contracts and IP Officer
Charles MycroftT: +44 (0)1522 837890E:cmycroft@lincoln.ac.uk

Business Development Officer (Innovate UK)
Jessica Boot-MarshallT: +44 (0)1522 837891E:jbootmarshall@lincoln.ac.uk

Senior College Research OfficerChristian BlanchetteT:+44 (0)1522 837866E:cblanchette@lincoln.ac.uk

Arts
Business Development ManagerMichael Poole T: +44 (0)1522 837426 E:mpoole@lincoln.ac.uk

Research OfficerDr Holly Harrod T: +44 (0)1522 886668 E:harrod@lincoln.ac.uk

Social Sciences
Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange ManagerSteve CorbettT: +44 (0)1522 886188M: 07843 658948E:scorbett@lincoln.ac.uk

Research OfficerHelen ReeceT: +44 (0)1522 835728E: hreece@lincoln.ac.uk

Senior Research OfficerAlison WilsonT: +44 (0)1522 837465E:awilson@lincoln.ac.uk
Lincoln International Business School
Impact OfficerJane DevilleT: +44 (0)1522 83 5562E:jdeville@lincoln.ac.uk
Research ManagerCarolyn WilliamsT: +44 (0)1522 886642 E:cwilliams@lincoln.ac.uku200c

Research Project ManagerMarie Daniels T: +44 (0)1522 837488 E: mdaniels@lincoln.ac.uk

Research Project ManagerEmma VincentT: +44 (0)1522 886443E:evincent@lincoln.ac.uk

Research Project ManagerSarah WardT: +44 (0)1522 886233E:sward@lincoln.ac.uk

Research Project ManagerPavan SangheraT: +44 (0)1522 886226E:psanghera@lincoln.ac.uk

Research Finance OfficerAlison CookeT: +44 (0)1522 886282E:acooke@lincoln.ac.uk

Research Finance OfficerCallum WillsT: +44 (0)1522 835876E: cwills@lincoln.ac.uk
Research Funding
In addition tofunding from Research Councils, businesses and other collaborative partners, the University has internal research funding available to assist with the development of new strategic research opportunities. Contact the Research team for more information.
Postgraduate researchers can also find out about financial support on the Postgraduate Fees and Funding page.
You can keepabreast of research news and funding opportunities by visiting the Research Blog.


Research Ethics and Integrity | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnEthics and Integrity
Supporting High-quality Research
The University of Lincoln is committed to encouraging research of the highest quality by supporting good conduct and helping to prevent misconduct. It aims to uphold the commitments outlined in theUUK Concordat to support Research Integrity(the concordat), which provide a comprehensive national framework for good research conduct and its governance to:
Our Policies
The University of LincolnsCode of Practice for Researchprovides a comprehensive framework for good research conduct and the governance of all research carried out across the University.
The Code of Practice for Research sets out the principles governing the conduct of research by individual researchers and the University; and lists the fundamental standards for good practice in research with which both researchers and the institution should comply.
The University of LincolnsResearch Ethics Policyis intended to support good conduct in research, in order to encourage research of the highest quality. It provides general principles and standards for good ethical practice in research, for the individual researcher (staff member or student) and the institution as a whole.
The University of Lincoln seeks to:
The University Research Integrity and Ethics Committee (URIEC) has oversight of the principles and practices of ethical research conduct across the University, specifically the Human and Non-Human Research Ethics Committees. It works in unison with the Research Committee to ensure that the Human/Non-Human Research Ethics Committees are supported to implement, monitor, and report on the ethical research conduct in their respective disciplines. For more information about the University of Lincolns governance structure,visit theCommittee Structurepage.
Further information regarding research ethics, or the research ethics application process, may be found on the University'sResearch Ethics portal pageor by emailingethics@lincoln.ac.uk.
The Human Tissue Authority (HTA) was set up to regulate the removal, storage, use, and disposal of human bodies, organs, and tissue for a number of scheduled purposes. These include research, education, and training, and are set out in the Human Tissue Act 2004 (HT Act).
In order for the University to store human tissue or hold human tissue material for research purposes, including cadaveric material, or to hold material for anatomical examination or teaching purposes, the institution requires a licence. The University of Lincoln holds a Human Tissue Authority Licence (Research #12678).
The Corporate Licence holder is the University of Lincoln. The Designated Individual (DI) is Professor Jon Whitehead.
The Human Tissue Oversight Group (HTOG) ensures its compliance with the Act under the terms and conditions of its license.
Further information regarding the storage or use of Human Tissue may be found on the University'sHuman Tissue portal pageor by emailingHTOG@lincoln.ac.uk.
The University of Lincoln expects all staff, students, and non-members conducting research on University premises to observe the highest standards of ethics and integrity. The Deputy Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation has overall responsibility for research integrity, and the UniversitysProcedure for the Investigation of Misconduct of Research(UKRIO)outlines the steps to follow in potential cases of research misconduct.
You can see Annual Statements on Research Integrity below:
Annual Statement on Research Integrity 2020/21
Annual Statement on Research Integrity 2019/20
Annual Statement on Research Integrity 2018/19
Anyone wishing to raise concerns about the integrity of research can do so in confidence by contacting:
In accordance with recommendations in the Concordat, you can view the Universitys Annual Misconduct Statement 2017/18
Further information can be found on theResearch Misconduct portal page. Alternatively, you can emailethics@lincoln.ac.uk.
Privacy Notice for Research Participants
The University privacy notice for research participants should be read in conjunction with a participant information sheet made available to you by the research study you are taking part in. This contains details about the personal information collected for the particular project that concerns you.
The University of Lincoln (We) aim to conduct research to the highest standards of research integrity. Our research outcomes are in the public interest.
As part of our commitment to research integrity, we follow the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the UK Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA), (hereafter referred as UK data protection law). In the case of health and care research, we also follow the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research.
We promise to respect the confidentiality and sensitivity of the personal information that you provide to us, that we get from other organisations, and that we share with other collaborating organisations (such as other Universities or our research funders). We will tell you how we will use your information, how we will keep it safe and who it will be shared with. We commit to keeping your personal information secure and will not use it to contact you for any other purpose unless you have agreed to this.
Research has a special status under UK data protection law. Research conducted by our staff and postgraduate research students (those studying for a PhD or Masters in Philosophy) is defined as making an original contribution to knowledge which is published in order to share that knowledge.
Research projects may also be conducted by undergraduate and taught postgraduate (Masters in Arts / Science etc.) students to fulfil the requirements of their programme of study. Although these projects are not intended to make an original contribution to knowledge, nor are they usually published, they are essential to the students education and are therefore included under our definition of research.
We are usually the Data Controller for research studies. This means that we will decide how your personal information is created, collected, used, shared, archived, and deleted(processed). When we do this, we will ensure that we collect only what is necessary for the project and that you have agreed to this. If any other organisation will make decisions about your information, this will be made clear in the participant information sheet provided to you.
If more than one organisation works together on a project, there may be two or more Data Controllers for a specific project. If this happens, the organisations will have agreements in place which outline their responsibilities and details of this will be make clear in the Participant Information Sheet, provided to you.
Information About You
Personal data means any information which can identify you. It can include information such as your name, gender, date of birth, address / postcode, or other information such as your opinions or thoughts. It can also include information which makes it possible to identify you, even if your name has been removed (such as quotes or social media postings).
We will only ever collect personal information that is appropriate and necessary for the specific research project being conducted. The specific information that we will collect about you will be listed in the Participant Information Sheet, given to you by the research team.
We may process some information about you that is considered to be sensitive and this is called special category personal data. This includes, but is not limited to, information such as your ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, religious beliefs, details about your health or past criminal convictions. These types of personal information require additional protections, particularly in relation to sharing, which the University ensures are in place.
Under UK data protection law we must have special safeguards in place to help protect your rights and freedoms when using your personal information and these are:
In addition to the above University safeguards the UK GDPR and the DPA also require us to meet the following standards when we conduct research with your personal information:
(a) the research will not cause damage or distress to someone (e.g., physical harm, financial loss or psychological pain) and will be subject to ethical review by a university research ethics committee.
(b) the research is not carried out in order to do or decide something in relation to an individual person or their care, unless the processing is for medical research approved by a research ethics committee.
(c) the Data Controller has technical and organisational safeguards in place (e.g. appropriate staff training and security measures).
(d) if processing a special category of data, this must be subject to a further public interest test to make sure this particularly sensitive information is required to meet the research objectives.
The Legal Part
Data protection law requires us to have a valid legal reason to process and use personal data about you. This is often called a legal basis. UK GDPR requires us to be explicit with you about the legal basis upon which we rely in order to process information about you.
For research the legal reason is Processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller(Article6oftheUKGDPR):
For sensitive information the legal reason is: the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes... which shall be proportionate to the aim pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject. (Article 9 of the U K GDPR).
When research involves criminal convictions, the legal reason is listed in Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2018 which requires that special safeguards are in place.
Where we need to rely on a different legal reason, such as consent, this will be listed in the Participant Information Sheet provided to you. In clinical trials or medical studies, for example, we may use the following reason:
Processing is necessary for the purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, for the assessment of the working capacity of the employee, medical diagnosis, the provision of health or social care or treatment or the management of health or social care systems and services on the basis of Union or Member State law or pursuant to contract with a health professional and subject to the conditions and safeguards.
We may also use your personal information for additional research purposes, such as other analysis or future projects on the same research topics. This is known as a secondary use or purpose.
If we want to do this it will be explained to you in the Participant Information Sheet and we will ensure that your information will not be used in ways which might have a direct impact on you (such as damage or distress) or will lead to decisions being made about you.
Sharing Your Information
Your personal information will be kept confidential at all times and researchers are asked to de-identify it (anonymise), pseudonymise (remove any information which can identify you such as your name and replace this with a unique code or key) or delete it as soon as possible. However, in some cases it may not be possible to de-identify your information as it is necessary in order to achieve the aims of the research. If this is the case you will be informed of this in the Participant Information Sheet.
Your personal information as well as any de-identified information will only be shared with members of the research team in order to conduct the project. If they need to share your information with anyone else including anyone outside of the UK, you will be told who they are and why this is the case in the Participant Information Sheet.
We also sometimes use products or services provided by third parties to conduct research activities or share research data, such as Microsoft collaboration products e.g. OneDrive Teams, Forms, JISC online surveys, or other online communication tools. These third parties are known as data processors and when we use them, we have agreements in place to ensure your information is kept safe. This does not always mean that they access your information but if they do this will be outlined in the Participant Information Sheet. As Data Controller, we will always carry out due diligence in respect of the use of third parties in order to keep your information safe throughout the research.
We will only keep your personal information for as long as necessary to complete the aims of the research. However, some personal information (including signed records of consent) will be kept for a minimum amount of time as required by external funders or our policies and procedures.
Your personal information will be deleted from our systems:
Research data (including signed records of consent) will be kept for a minimum of 5 years (this will be anonymised or pseudo-anonymised) after the research is completed except:
If you access additional University services these may keep a record of your contact and will provide you with details of how long they keep your information.
For some research projects, your de-identified or pseudonymised information will be kept after the project has ended, placed into a data repository / online archive for sharing with other researchers or used in future research. If the researchers would like to do this with your information you will be told in the Participant Information Sheet.
When using research repositories, researchers are often required to upload their supporting or underlying data which may be identifiable or sensitive. The repositories have technical controls in place to ensure that only authorised individuals can access the information.
Obtaining Information About You From Other Organisations
On occasion, other organisations share personal information about you with our research teams, your information is treated in the same way as the information we collect directly from you in accordance with appropriate laws and technical standards. The suppliers of this data are usually official bodies, such as NHS Digital, NHS England, the Home Office, or the Department of Education.. When your data is supplied by those organisations, our research teams will publish privacy information on dedicated websites.
Your Rights
By law, you have rights in relation to the personal information we hold about you. These include the right to:
These rights only apply to your information before it is anonymised as once this happens we can no longer identify your specific information. Sometimes your rights may be limited if it would prevent or delay the research. If this happens you will be informed by the research team but you still have rights to complain to our Data Protection Officer and if you are still not satisfied you also have the right to complain about this to the Information Commissioner.
In some instances, we may have asked for your consent to use your personal information for research purposes (e.g. to contact you to take part in future research). If we asked for your consent, you can withdraw this at any time; you should have already been told how to do this but if not, or if you are in doubt, please use the contact details below. Please note that your consent to use your personal information is separate from your ethical consent to participate in a particular research study (which we usually request for relevant types of research).
If you have any questions about how your personal information is used, or wish to exercise any of your rights, please consult the Universitys data protection webpages. If you need further assistance, please contact the Universitys Data Protection Officers, at compliance@lincoln.ac.uk or write to:
Information Compliance, Secretariat, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
You can also make complaints directly to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is the independent authority upholding information rights for the UK. Their website is ico.org.uk and their telephone helpline number is 0303 123 1113.
Discover More
Research Environment
At the University of Lincoln, we understand the importance of providing staff and students with the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities, improve lives, and change the world.
Discover More
Concordat for Researchers
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is an agreement between funders and employers of research staff to improve the employment and support for research careers in UK higher education.
Read the Concordat
Research at Lincoln
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better - whether that is connecting individuals and communities through shared local heritage, or contributing to international efforts to address global grand challenges.
Explore Our Research


Sustainability | University of LincolnIn this section
Tackling climate change and reversing environmental degradation are among the most important tasks facing the world in the 21st century. University of Lincoln researchers are developing innovative solutions to the challenge of sustainability through inter-disciplinary research in key areas, including climate science, soils, evolution and ecology; water and planetary health; clean energy, energy usage and sustainable supply chains; and ecological justice.
The University has declared a climate emergency and is working with partners locally and globally on a range of short- and longer-term interventions to safeguard the future of our planet.



Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
The Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT) is a specialist research institute that aims to support and enhance productivity, efficiency, and sustainability in food and farming.
Researchers are engaged in the development of technologies which add value or solve challenges across the food chain. One of theInstitutes core aims is to connect academic expertise with partners in industry to pursue world class research and address real-world challenges, advancing state-of-the-art agri-food technology and improving the bottom line for businesses.
Find out More
Staying Smart and Growing Green
A pioneering new research collaboration featuring nine research institutions and three commercial companies spanning six different countries is shining a spotlight on the energy efficiency objectives of growers across the North Sea Region using the newest technologies.
Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
The accelerating environmental degradation projected for this century, of which climate change, natural habitat loss, over-exploitation of resources and pollution are major drivers, will likely move many key natural systems beyond their capacity for resilience. We need to improve our understanding of how best to make the necessary changes in human and institutional behaviour tomake a difference, which will require new forms of research, with new synergies from interdisciplinary, cross-scale research in law, the natural and social sciences, and the humanities.
The Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice (LinCEJ) will lead and enable creative research that will do just that, delivering new understandings of the types of changes and governance measures needed to turn the Anthropocene from an era of high risk for society and the environment to one in which the needs of all are met on an equitable basis.
Find out More

Stabilising the National Grid
Reducing the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere is one of the key objectives for mitigating the global impact of climate change. Researchers and engineers at the University of Lincoln have built an imitation supermarket in a bid to tackle the impact of mass refrigeration on the UK's carbon footprint and support our strained National Grid.

Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health (LCWPH)
The Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health focuses on solving the most pressing global environmental and societal problems emerging from the worlds largest rivers.
s specialisms include climate change impacts on extreme floods and droughts, flood-related contamination from metal mining and processing, and water-borne and vector-borne diseases affecting humans and animals.", 'Find out More
The Epic Tale of the Humble Goldfish
It is a common household pet, loved by inquisitive toddlers and parents alike, but research has revealed that the   humble goldfish hides a remarkable history - one of cultural, scientific, and environmental significance.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
s growth and meet the challenges of the future.", 'Core research areas include robotics and automation,food safety and microbiology, advanced food processing technologies, and food supply chain development, reflecting the priorities of the food manufacturing sector.
Find out More

The Future of Farming
In the future, farming and food production will be transformed by efficient new robotic systems, and researchers at the University of Lincoln are at the forefront of this exciting research.

Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research (L-CAS)
The Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems Research specialises in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems, especially mobile robots and robotic manipulators.
Areas of application include agri-food, healthcare, intelligent transportation, logistics, nuclear robotics, service robotics, and space robotics.
Find out More
City Expansion Creating Sites for Disease
Findings from an interdisciplinary research project has indicated that urban expansion is creating the conditions for infectious diseases to emerge and spread around the world.

Research Centre for Computational Physics
The Research Centre for Computational Physics undertakes research encompassing computational and theoretical physics as well as applied mathematics of nano-structured soft matter, solid/soft matter interface, molecular biophysics, and biologically inspired systems.
Find out More
Saving Alexandria
An Associate Professor at the University of Lincoln has been working with Sigma Properties in Egypt for almost 10 years in a bid to restore some of Alexandrias most impressive buildings, reinvigorate its culture, and create dynamic new business models to ensure the city thrives into the future.

Autism Research Innovation Centre
The Autism Research Innovation Centre (ARIC) is focused on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research. ARICs mission is to create a diverse and inclusive environment where community knowledge and academic expertise merge to produce evidence-based innovative professional approaches and services for enriching the lives of autistic people and those who support them throughout their lifespan.
We work to develop, evaluate, and cultivate evidence-based initiatives and protocols to strengthen the connection between autistic people and those supporting them.
Find out More
Related Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Autism Research Innovation Centre (ARIC)
Catchments and Coasts
Development and Behaviour
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Evolution and Ecology
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems (L-CAS)
Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health (LCWPH)
Lincoln Climate Research Group
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT)
Lincoln Soils Research Group
National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM)
Research Centre for Computational Physics
Responsible Management(RM)
Sustainable Built Environments
Sustainable Energy and Power Systems
UNESCO Chair


Top Ten Sustainability | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnTop 10 in the UK for reducing our environmental impact
Discover More
Find out more about the University of Lincoln's sustainability policies and plans
Discover More
Find out more about University of Lincoln's sustainability policies and plans
Sustainability at Lincoln


Agri-tech Revolutions | Research Features | University of LincolnResearch Spotlight
Agri-tech Revolutions
Creating a Gateway for the World
The Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire region is already a major UK production centre for crop-based agriculture and the associated supply chain. Its significance and sheer scale has led to the establishment of a nationally renowned agri-tech cluster, centred on the Universities of Lincoln and Cambridge, where interdisciplinary agri-food innovation is focused on digital technologies, including robotics and artificial intelligence, to boost productivity.
Now, a 4.9 million grant from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) can help to deliver a step change in activity and fund the drive to make the LINCAM region a global innovation centre for agricultural technology.
The Place Based Impact Acceleration Account (PBIAA) award from the EPSRC  the main funding body for engineering and physical sciences research in the UK  will be used to help make LINCAM an agri-tech gateway for the world, enabling the development of technologies at industrial scale and providing export opportunities for agri-tech companies and inward investment opportunities within both the agri-tech and primary production sectors.
Challenges are acute across this region but this funding award offers an opportunity to harness agri-tech to secure sustainable growth, bringing high-value and skilled jobs to the region, whilst mitigating the serious environmental impacts of the food production system.
Professor Simon Pearson
Director of the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Professor Simon Pearson, founding Director of the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology (LIAT), said: The LINCAM agricultural sector supports 88,000 jobs, generates gross value added (GVA) of 3.8 billion and farms more than 50 per cent of the UKs grade 1 land. However, despite this scale, there are still significant challenges and opportunities.
Food production accounts for 24 per cent of all UK greenhouse gas emissions, leads to significant biodiversity losses, and drives challenging social issues  not least from seasonal worker influxes to rural communities. In addition, farmers are under relentless cost pressures which are eroding supply chain equity and local economies."
The University of Lincoln has a long track record of agri-tech collaboration with the University of Cambridge and its commercialisation arm Cambridge Enterprise. Their work has included the setting up of Agriforwards CDT  the worlds first EPSRC centre for doctoral training (CDT) in agri-food robotics.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology 
The University of Lincoln has been awarded the prestigious Queens Anniversary Prize for its work supporting the success and sustainability of the UKs food and farming industries. Find out more about the groundbreaking research taking place at our Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology.

LINCAM will build on the success of their Ceres agri-tech partnership with three other leading UK universities and three renowned agricultural research institutes. Ceres, funded by Research England, provides translational funding and commercialisation expertise to drive agri-tech innovation by accelerating high-quality research to market. It has launched four agri-tech spin-out companies to date and created 13 licensing opportunities.
LINCAM will broaden participation in the cluster by offering access to the EPSRC funding to all UK higher education institutes involved in agri-tech research with the potential to drive economic and environmental or social sustainability in the region. Projects that are successful in securing a share of the funding will be actively mentored by the LINCAM team to accelerate the delivery of results.
The civic bodies involved in the LINCAM partnership include the Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership, the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough Combined Authority, and West Lindsey District Council.
Meet the Expert
Prof Pearson is Director of LIAT and Professor of Agri-Food Technology. His research interests include agri-technology applications such as robotic systems, automation, energy control and management, food safety systems, and novel crop development.
Discover More
Read the latest news and find out more about the innovative and impactful research that is taking place at the University of Lincoln.
New Research Facility Planned for Riseholme Campus
A new net zero glasshouse research and development facility is set to be built on the University of Lincolns Riseholme Campus.
Read the Full Story
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Find out more about the research taking place in our Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology.
Explore Our Research
Research at Lincoln
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better - whether that is connecting individuals and communities through shared local heritage, or contributing to international efforts to address global grand challenges.
Explore Our Research


[]


Doctoral Training Partnership | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnDoctoral Training Partnership
Lincoln Joins New Social Sciences Training Partnership
The University of Lincoln is proud to announce its involvement in the South and East Network for Social Sciencesu202f(SENSS) Doctoral Training Partnership, funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) to train the next generation of social scientists.
Fully funded ESRC studentships are available to research students via this partnership, across eight SENSS partner universities. The studentships cover tuition fees at the appropriate rate and an annual maintenance grant (also called stipend).
Please note that applications for studentships commencing in autumn 2024 are now closed. However, we welcome enquiries for the next round of research studentships in 2025. Please email us at senss@lincoln.ac.uk.
Routes for Research and Training
There are a variety of flexible routes for research and training, depending on your background and the research you are planning to undertake. SENSS positively encourages applicants from talented students whose highest qualification is an undergraduate degree, who may be funded to undertake a Master's programme. Details about eligibility and guidance, including links to applicant webinars and applicant portal, can be found on the SENSS website.
s degree followed by a PhD, as well as the mandatory three-month placement.", 'Schools at Lincoln
The following Schools are currently involved in supporting applications. Applications for interdisciplinary projects are welcomed, as long as the PhD project is led by researchers in these discipline areas. Prospective applicants are asked to identify and liaise with potential supervisors by following the links to the School pages below.
Psychology
The School of Psychology has a strong and growing reputation for excellent fundamental and applied research with international impact and fosters a vibrant and outward-facing culture in its partnerships and collaborations.
Discover More
Social and Politcal Sciences
The School of Social and Politcal Sciences has a reputation for research excellence and its academic staff are engaged in cutting-edge research that is not only pushing the boundaries of our subjects but is also having real life impact.
Discover More
Health and Social Care
The School of Health and Social Care works with a range of communities, services, and researchers to design and deliver projects that are beneficial to service users and which influence policy, practice, and procedures in health and social care.
Discover More
Subject Areas and Thematic Pathways
University of Lincoln students who are undertaking social science-led research or interdisciplinary research that crosses arts and humanities and social sciences can apply for funding to pursue research aligned to one of our interdisciplinary thematic pathways.
The pathways are set out below and under each are listed the Schools that are considered eligible for that pathway. In order to apply for SENSS funding in one of the thematic pathways, you must first have applied for a place to study for a research degree in one of the participating subject areas at Lincoln.
Digital Social Sciences
Psychology
Health, Wellbeing, and Social Care
Psychology; Social and Political Science; and Health and Social Care
Justice, Institutions, and Social Change
Social and Political Science
Resolving Uncertainty and Addressing Crises   
Social and Political Science
Sustainability and Climate Emergency
Social and Political Science
Digital Social Sciences
Psychology
Health, Wellbeing, and Social Care
Psychology; Social and Political Science; and Health and Social Care
Justice, Institutions, and Social Change
Social and Political Science
Resolving Uncertainty and Addressing Crises   
Social and Political Science
Sustainability and Climate Emergency
Social and Political Science


Reverse Coal | Research Features | University of LincolnResearch Spotlight
Reverse Coal Project
Creating a Greener, Cleaner Future
Peatlands are one of the most fertile lands in the UK for food growth, but the process emits excessive CO2, which can be detrimental to the environment. A new project featuring academics, farmers, and engineers, including a team from the Lincoln Institute of Agri-Technology (LIAT) and the School of Engineering at the University of Lincoln, is working to mitigate these issues, paving the way for climate-resilient and more sustainable agriculture. 
, is taking place at the Lapwing Estate, a 5,000-acre estate near Doncaster, and sees a shift to indoor farming using a sustainable biomass fuel source as its power. The energy comes from growing biomass feed stock, which is then subjected to a thermochemical treatment called pyrolysis to create a source of energy. The pyrolysis will also produce biochar which will then be stored in a unique storage facility demonstrating that CO2can be permanently captured.", 'Reverse Coal has been receiving praise for its pioneering approach, picking up the Highly Commended accolade at the internationally recognised UK and Ireland Green Gown Awards, and featuring as a positive case study in the Governments Environmental Improvement Plan 2023, highlighted as an example of how peatlands can be more responsibly managed.
The Reverse Coal Project
Led by a team from The Lapwing Estate and the University of Lincoln, the Reverse Coal Project serves as a crucial stepping stone towards a scalable and sustainable future. It demonstrates the potential of innovative solutions to address environmental challenges, paving the way for broader adoption and positive impact on a global scale.

The global food system is responsible not only for 30 per cent of CO2 emissions but also 60 per cent of nature loss, so a radical transformation is needed. The aim of this project is to reverse the impact of coal via an engineered natural solution to extract carbon from the atmosphere and return it back into the geological reserve for long-term storage.
"Reverse Coal sequesters carbon and produces food with positive environmental impact," explains Dr Amir Badiee, who along with Professor Simon Pearson from LIAT, is leading the project.
"Fossil fuels have been used for so long in food production that their negative impact can not be understated, but this project proves that there is a better way. It solves the inherent dilemma of bioenergy crops: the loss of land from food production."
Its fantastic to see this being highlighted in the Governments environmental strategy, and receiving the Green Gown Award is an immense honour. It is a profound validation of our commitment to net zero transition and underscores the significance of the project in contributing to net-zero research.
Dr Amir Badiee
Senior Lecturer and Reverse Coal Project Lead
incredible project' and a 'timely' and 'important piece of collaborative research on carbon capture and peat land restoration'.", 'The Green Gown Awards UK and Ireland has been recognising sustainability excellence in Higher Education since 2004 and are delivered by the EAUC  The Alliance for Sustainability Leadership in Education, in association with UKRI  UK Research and Innovation.
The Reverse Coal Project has now been selected for both Phase One and Phase Two of the Governments Greenhouse Gas Removal Programme, which will provide funding for the scheme.
Meet the Expert
Dr Badiee is active in the fields of material development and characterisation with interests in solar energy and alternative fuels. His research is backed by respected institutes and companies such as British Steel, CATCH, Pilkingtons Glass.
Meet the Expert
Prof Pearson is Director of LIAT and Professor of Agri-Food Technology. His research interests include agri-technology applications such as robotic systems, automation, energy control and management, food safety systems, and novel crop development.
Discover More
Read more about the Reverse Coal Project and the innovative and impactful research that is taking place at the University of Lincoln.
Reverse Coal Project Wins International Commendation
The Reverse Coal Project team is celebrating after picking up the accolade of Highly Commended at the UK and Ireland Green Gown Awards.
Read the Full Story
Reverse Coal Project Receives Government Recognition
A natural alternative to the negative impact of carbon on the environment has received recognition in a Government environmental paper.
Read the Full Story
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Find out more about the research taking place in our Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology.
Explore Our Research


Global Food Crisis | Research Features | University of LincolnResearch Spotlight
Tackling the Global Food Crisis
Learning Lessons from the Past
There is more food being produced globally than ever before and yet many people around the world still face malnutrition. Events such as the Covid-19 pandemic and Russias invasion of Ukraine have exposed significant vulnerabilities in the global food supply system, accelerating the need for innovative approaches to long-term food security.
To tackle global food crises and help secure the future of food, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) and the Brussels Institute for Advanced Studies (BrIAS) have established an international collaboration drawing on expertise from around the world to address issues of hunger and food security.
An academic from the University of Lincoln is among the international academic specialists contributing to this effort. Dr Matthew Hannaford, Senior Lecturer in Human Geography, was invited to Brussels to present his research at the international workshop jointly hosted by FAO and BrIAS entitled Re-imagining agri-food system transformations: Enlarging and enriching time horizons.
In an original approach, focus will be directed towards lessons from history to evaluate the successes and failures of previous interventions under certain societal and agricultural conditions. This knowledge can inform the work of foresight planners in building scenarios toward food sustainability amidst uncertainty.
Historians have long been writing about food insecurity and many have concluded that the majority of food crises in recent centuries have been largely human made. Yet it is rare that deep historical knowledge of past interventions in food systems informs foresight planning to help avoid repeating the mistakes and injustices of the past.
Dr Matthew Hannaford
Senior Lecturer in Human Geography
Dr Hannaford explains that while food production output already surpasses nutritional requirements and is continuing to rise, population growth, diet changes, environmental degradation, natural resource scarcity, military conflicts, and climate change could threaten peoples access to food in many parts of the world.
"After a period of great optimism, food crises are once again on the rise," he says. "Indeed, in many countries progress on the Sustainable Development Goal of Zero Hunger, is deteriorating.
We can begin to remedy problems by bringing historians and foresight planners together in the same room, which is what BrIAS facilitated. We aim to build on momentum through collective participation in the UN Food Systems Stocktaking Moment in Rome. This new globalcollaboration has broadened Lincolns renowned strengths in technological innovation in food production into the social sciences and humanities.
Two pilot projects are planned to take place in Bangladesh and Malawi where teams combining academic and non-academic specialisms will work to make local historical information widely accessible and ensure their preservation.
Through delving into archives and amplifying local voices, strategies can be devised with an emphasis on co-production to find effective ways forward.
Meet the Expert
s research sits at the interface of environmental history, historical climatology, and climate change adaptation, and has a particular focus on social engagement with climate in the past.", 'Practitioners and Researchers Learning from the Past
Find out more about the international workshops, organised by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and the Brussels Institute for Advanced Studies.
Discover More
A Transformative Centre for Doctoral Training
The University of Lincoln and leading partner institutions has secured 10.6m in funding from UK Research and Innovation to establish a transformative Centre for Doctoral Training.
Read the Full Story
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Find out more about the research taking place in our Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology.
Explore Our Research


Transforming the Lives of Young Fathers | Research Features | University of LincolnResearch Spotlight
Transforming Young Lives
Father-inclusion for Young Dads
There is a commonly held view that fathers below the age of 25 are inherently risky, uncaring, or irresponsible. This can sometimes lead to young fathers experiencing exclusion and stigmatisation in society. 
A research project led by Anna Tarrant, Professor of Sociology at the University of Lincoln, is questioning these popular myths, collating evidence that young dads not only have a desire to be positively involved in their childrens lives, but that they are willing to advocate for policy change on a national level to introduce more father-inclusive practices.
, is funded by UK Research and Innovation and has seen the co-creation of the Young Dads Collective (YDC) in Leeds in 2017 and Grimsby in 2023. Through these groups, dads from deprived areas are being given a platform to connect with each other, discuss how practice and policy could better accommodate them, and directly present their views to senior-level professionals and practitioners.", 'Challenging the societal narrative of the irresponsible young man, the young fathers that are engaging in our research are advocating for themselves, while also educating professionals about the wider social benefits of father-inclusive practices.
Professor Anna Tarrant
Professor of Sociology
The 'Following Young Fathers Further' project was one of just three highly commended entries in the category of research and innovation at the recent UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships Impact Awards.
s research reveals that young fathers are the most marginalised of parents, with support services in health and social care, and the statutory and voluntary sectors not typically targeting their demographic. However, following attendance at a YDC workshop, professionals are gaining an improved understanding of young fathers commitments to their children and what good practice entails.", 'Our engagement with young fathers as experts by experience in areas like Leeds, Grimsby and the North East, more recently, is proving just how invested young fathers are in supporting their children and their families," explains Professor Tarrant. "This approach is empowering for young fathers, their families, and professionals.
m buzzing. Love being listened to and its not just the work with the professionals. Its about meeting up with other dads when we do the planning. We all want other dads to have a better experience.", 'Adam
From the Young Dads Collective, Leeds
YDC delivers innovative training on integrating father-inclusive practices to hundreds of professionals across various industries, and some young fathers were supported further to participate in national policy discussions at the All Party Parliamentary Group on Fatherhood.
In addition to campaigning for policy and practice improvements, the YDC provides young dads with an invaluable platform to connect socially and develop confidence, granting them wider benefits for their citizenship. For example, where none of the fathers were in permanent employment before their involvement in the training, several secured paid work and/or training opportunities by being able to evidence their newly acquired skills.
The team has also supported the co-creation of DigiDAD that further seeks to develop the skillset of young fathers. The North East Young Dads and Lads project won two awards at the prestigious Children and Young People Now Awards 2023 for DigiDAD: the Youth Work national project of the year and Advice and Guidance national project of the year.
DigiDAD
DigiDAD is a growing online platform which offers free support and guidance to disadvantaged young dads while equipping them with new skills, such as film making, animation, research, podcasting, social marketing, video-gaming moderation, and digital youth work.
Professor Tarrant and the research team have also developed the Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research to continue their pioneering work to promote father-inclusion and to dismantle harmful prejudices around young dads while helping them to succeed.
The hybrid research and innovation centre will support training around father-inclusion and parent participation with a goal to become a centre of excellence in research and practice about family welfare.
Meet the Expert
s research broadly focuses on mens care responsibilities, welfare, and support needs, in low-income families and in contexts across the life course. She is author and co-author of several books exploring marginalised fatherhoods.", 'Discover More
Read more about Following Young Fathers Further and the innovative and impactful research that is taking place at the University of Lincoln.
Following Young Fathers Further
The Following Young Fathers Further project is exploring new ways of embedding father-inclusive research, practice, and policy in the UK.
Discover More
Mobile Arts for Peace
Mobile Arts for Peace is a collaborative project using arts-based practices for peacebuilding in Kyrgyzstan, Rwanda, Indonesia, and Nepal, with help from universities, cultural artists, civil society organisations, and families in local communities.
Explore the Project
Research at Lincoln
Discover more about our key research strengths and the groundbreaking studies taking place at Lincoln.
Explore Our Research


New Approach to Rural and Coastal Health | Research Features | University of LincolnResearch Spotlight
Rural and Coastal Health
A New Approach to Tackling Inequalities
s landmass and are home to 10 million people. But they grapple with significant challenges  from deprivation and economic shocks to climate change impacts and health inequalities.", "These challenges lead to higher rates of preventable conditions, emergency physical and psychological presentations, and shorter life expectancies. As one of England's largest counties with vast sparsely populated areas and more than 50 miles of coastline and wetlands, Lincolnshire is particularly vulnerable to such issues.", 'Now, a 10.9 million grant from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) is helping the University of Lincoln to combat these kinds of health inequalities through a unique approach to rural and coastal health research.
This funding is recognition of the importance of understanding how health and wellbeing is experienced in communities outside large urban areas and major cities, and why that is important for the nation as a whole.
Professor Mark Gussy
Global Professor in Rural Health and Social Care
s first integrated and multidisciplinary research institute dedicated to bringing together rural and coastal health and wellbeing research to help tackle the place-based inequalities experienced in these communities.", 'Coastal and rural communities can be disproportionately impacted by economic problems, weather related disasters, and climate change, in addition to longstanding health challenges and poorer access to services," explains Professor Mark Gussy, Global Professor in Rural Health and Social Care. "By linking the geospatial, environment, and weather influences with traditional population health sciences, we will develop a more sophisticated understanding of the broader determinants of health and wellbeing."
He adds:With community inclusion at the heart of everything LIRCH will do, it will tackle urgent place-based inequalities and develop solutions to improve physical, mental, social, and economic health and wellbeing in coastal and rural communities."

Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
The Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health brings together leading academics and specialists to conduct world-class interdisciplinary research that aims to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities, locally, nationally, and internationally.
The Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health will bring together various disciplines, including geography, community health care, and rural and coastal health, to create a multifaceted approach to both rural and coastal health, co-designing and delivering research and solutions with the people affected, and ultimately addressing the issues faced in these communities more holistically than ever before.
The Institute will connect its research agendas with regional and national priorities as it seeks to improve health and wellbeing in coastal and rural communities in Lincolnshire and beyond.
It will also focus on fostering research talent and innovation pathways in the region, developing a team of diverse researchers working in new transdisciplinary ways. In co-designing and shaping this emerging discipline with a new generation of researchers, the LIRCH will also be helping to create the future leaders of rural and coastal health research.
Meet the Expert
Prof Gussy is Global Professor in Rural Health and Social Care and his research specialisms include rural health, coastal community health and wellbeing, oral health, health service models, community participation, and inclusive research.
Towards a Healthier Future
Located in a rural region, the University of Lincoln is alert to the particular challenges and opportunities facing non-urban communities in the UK and around the world. Working with local, national, and international partners, academics in our multidisciplinary research centres are addressing a range of health-related issues, from infectious disease epidemiology and anti-microbial resistance, to environmental impact, health inequalities, and access to effective treatments and services.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Lincoln Medical School
Established in 2018 with the specific aim of improving the recruitment and retention of doctors to Lincolnshire.
Autism Research Innovation Centre
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
Cancer and Ageing Research Group
Adopting a multidisciplinary approach to increase understanding of disease associated with ageing at the molecular level.
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Investigating the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor and behavioural processes.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation Research Group
A vision to create a strong, dynamic, and engaged culture to carry out research that has the potential for real-world impact.
Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group
Exploring pre-clinical aspects, from the identification of novel drug targets to the development of improved methods of delivery. 
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Research aims to support the challenges faced by an increasing global life expectancy and ageing populations.
Mental Health and Health Care Research Group
Providing expert knowledge and guidance to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Microbiology and Biotechnology Research Group
Answering fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation, and testing of microorganisms and viruses. 
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Specialising in developing and applying contemporary psychological science to address health-related challenges.
Social Psychology Research Group
Conducting research on individuals emotions, thoughts, and behaviours in diverse social contexts.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Community and Health Research Unit
With a mission to enhance peoples health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities.
Lincoln Medical School
Established in 2018 with the specific aim of improving the recruitment and retention of doctors to Lincolnshire.
Autism Research Innovation Centre
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
Cancer and Ageing Research Group
Adopting a multidisciplinary approach to increase understanding of disease associated with ageing at the molecular level.
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Investigating the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor and behavioural processes.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation Research Group
A vision to create a strong, dynamic, and engaged culture to carry out research that has the potential for real-world impact.
Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group
Exploring pre-clinical aspects, from the identification of novel drug targets to the development of improved methods of delivery. 
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Research aims to support the challenges faced by an increasing global life expectancy and ageing populations.
Mental Health and Health Care Research Group
Providing expert knowledge and guidance to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Microbiology and Biotechnology Research Group
Answering fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation, and testing of microorganisms and viruses. 
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Specialising in developing and applying contemporary psychological science to address health-related challenges.
Social Psychology Research Group
Conducting research on individuals emotions, thoughts, and behaviours in diverse social contexts.
Discover More
Report Highlights Farmers Concerns About Cultured Meat
While some UK farmers see the development of cultured or cell-based meat as potential competition to traditional meat production, others are concerned about public health effects and how it might affect rural life.
Read the Full Story
Learning Lessons from the Past
To help tackle current global food crises, researchers and practitioners are turning to the past, examining successes and failures of previous interventions to build scenarios for future food sustainability and security.
Read the Full Story
Mobile Arts for Peace
Mobile Arts for Peace is a collaborative project using arts-based practices for peacebuilding in Kyrgyzstan, Rwanda, Indonesia, and Nepal, with help from universities, cultural artists, civil society organisations, and families in local communities.
Explore the Project


Sustainable Futures | Research Features | University of LincolnResearch Spotlight
SUSTAINable Futures
A Transformative Centre for Doctoral Training
The agri-food sector is a key driver for the UK economy, but it is also responsible for a significant proportion of greenhouse gas emissions and biodiversity loss. The UK has committed to achieving net zero by 2050 and this means there is a huge push to make the sector sustainable while also ensuring that everyone in the UK has access to food that is nutritious, delicious, affordable, and safe.
Enter Artificial Intelligence (AI), which can help the sector achieve the rapid transformation needed to meet this challenge. The University of Lincoln is at the forefront of agri-tech research, and thanks to 10.6 million funding from UK Research and Innovation will be training the scientists who can help make this transformation happen.
In collaboration with the University of Aberdeen, Queens University Belfast, and the University of Strathclyde, Lincoln will be using the funding to establish SUSTAIN, a transformative Centre for Doctoral Training. It will provide a cross-disciplinary, multi-institution doctoral training programme to support innovative research in the application of AI to sustainable agri-food, covering technical and social science aspects of AI, alongside training in plant, animal and/or biosciences, tailored to individual students needs and interests.
New Fully Funded Studentships
We are offering range of fully funded studentships in the application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to sustainable agri-food, which will take place in the new Centre for Doctoral Training, SUSTAIN. There are 12 four-year studentships available, starting in October 2024.
Bringing together the expertise and resources of four academic institutions, SUSTAIN will span the entire landscape of UK agriculture, critical AI research areas, and the national geography of England, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
Alongside this, the students will have access to the Global Innovation Institute of Queens University Belfast, which is a nexus for co-innovation between researchers and industry in data security to realise the benefits of digital technologies within health and agri-food sectors; the Rowett Institute at the University of Aberdeen, including a clinical investigation unit, a metabolic research facility, a body composition suite and extensive state-of-the-art laboratories; and the Hyperspectral Imaging Lab at the University of Strathclyde, a suite of HSI sensor equipment for applications in the agri-food domain.
SUSTAIN will help to transform the agri-food sector in the UK through the deployment of safe, responsible, and understandable AI. Its commitment to diversity, inclusivity, and environmental sustainability will ensure a comprehensive and impactful approach towards training the next generation of AI scientists dedicated to sustainable agriculture.
Professor Simon Parsons
SUSTAIN Lead and Head of the School of Computer Science
Professor Elizabeth Sklar, who is a Co-Deputy Director for SUSTAIN, added:This new interdisciplinary, cross-cutting centre bridges significant gaps in sustainable AI: from farm to fork in the agri-food pipeline, from algorithm to deployment in the AI development pipeline, from researcher to end-user in the AI dissemination pipeline, and from England to Scotland and Northern Ireland in the education pipeline.
SUSTAIN will also feature Co-Deputy Director, Professor Georgios Leontidis from the University of Aberdeen, and Co-Investigators Professor Ilias Kyriazakis, from Queens University Belfast, and Dr Christos Tachtatzis, from the University of Strathclyde.
Riseholme Campus
SUSTAIN students will benefit from expert supervision and world-leading facilities, such as the University of Lincolns Riseholme Campus, which features a diverse range of resources including a working farm, robotics and plant labs, and the UKs first agri-tech incubator, Barclays Eagle Lab.
Meet the Expert
Prof Simon Parsons is Head of the School of Computer Science. His research interests are in the area of Artificial Intelligence looking at data-backed decision making, explainable artificial intelligence, market-based systems, and mobile robotics.
Meet the Expert
Elizabeth Sklar is Professor of Agri-Robotics and Research Director at LIAT. Her research investigates the implementation of AI-based methods in multi-robot teams, human-machine teaming, data-backed decision making, and behaviour mining.
Discover More
Read the latest news and find out more about the innovative and impactful research that is taking place at the University of Lincoln.
University Wins Queen's Anniversary Prize
The University of Lincoln has been awarded the prestigious Queens Anniversary Prize for its work supporting the success and sustainability of the UKs food and farming industries.
Read the Full Story
Agri-tech Funding Boost for Regional Partnership
An Agri-tech collaboration led by the University of Lincoln has secured vital research funding to develop a truly global Agri-tech cluster in the Greater Lincolnshire and East Anglia region.
Read the Full Story
New Research Facility Planned for Riseholme Campus
A new net zero glasshouse research and development facility is set to be built on the University of Lincolns Riseholme Campus.
Read the Full Story


Protecting Our Planet | Research Features | University of LincolnResearch Spotlight
Protecting Our Planet
Improving Predictions on Rising Sea Levels
As one of the most pressing issues of our time, climate change has caused significant rises in sea levels, and the accurate prediction of just how much they will rise in future is subject to ongoing analysis.
Now, a new study involving an international group of 29 ice-sheet experts, led by Edward Hanna, Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology at the University of Lincoln, has identified that global climate change-related rises in sea level could be better predicted by gaining a clearer understanding of the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets.
The team of interdisciplinary scientists undertook a review of evidence gained from observational data, geological records, and computer model simulations. Published in the Nature journal, Nature Reviews Earth & Environment, the research discusses the demand to monitor short- and long-term timescales of changes in ice sheet behaviour, to reduce uncertainty in future sea level rise projections.
The time to act is now - this research could help to prevent future ice-sheet mass loss and improve projections, helping us pave the way for a more sustainable future.
Professor Edward Hanna
Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology
The new study highlights that predictions of sea level rise could be refined, to better prepare for the impacts of climate change. Glacial masses are subject to short-term fluctuations and extreme events across a wide range of timescales, from days to thousands of years, and as a result diverse knowledge should be gathered.
Historically, ice sheets have been thought of as slow-moving and delayed in their response to climate change. These ice sheets lock up sea water, equivalent to an increase of 65 metres of global sea level rise. In contrast, the teams research illustrates that these huge glaciers respond in far quicker and unexpected ways as the climate warms, similarly to the frequency and intensity of hurricanes and heatwaves responding to changes with the climate.
Ground and satellite observations, and the development of climate models demonstrate that sudden heatwaves and large storms can have long-lasting effects on ice sheets. This weather fluctuation can lead to extreme melt events, such as the Greenland ice sheet melt in July 2023, or cause ice shelves to disappear almost overnight, as with the Antarctica Conger Ice Shelf collapse in 2022.
The Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Our Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health focuses on solving global environmental and societal challenges, including hydrological and sea-level impacts of climate change, as well as behavioural, political, and economic adaptation mechanisms to mitigate environmental and human health impacts.
Ice-sheet mass loss is not a simple uniform response to climate warming but is punctuated, for example, by short-term extreme melting events, and by the catastrophic break-up of ice shelves along the coast which can occur rapidly unplugging much larger amounts of ice from further inland," commented Edward Hanna, Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology.
The patterns, processes, and impacts of ice-sheet variability on different timescales from days through to millennia are not well understood. Failing to account for such variability can result in biased projections of future ice-sheet mass loss.
This review serves as a call to action, urging the scientific community to prioritise research efforts that will enhance the understanding of ice sheet variability. It is crucial that scientists, policymakers, and stakeholders collaborate more closely to improve climate and ocean monitoring systems, refine models, and ensure that ice sheet models accurately represent the observed changes.
The research was sponsored by the World Climate Research Programmes Climate and Cryosphere project, the International Arctic Science Committee, and the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research.
Meet the Expert
Edward Hanna is Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology and a Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society. His research specialisms include climate change and meteorology, seasonal weather prediction, and solar eclipses.
Discover More
Read the latest news and find out more about the innovative and impactful research that is taking place at the University of Lincoln.
New Study Uses AI and Machine Learning to Improve Seasonal Weather Predictions
A team of researchers at the Universities of Lincoln, Sheffield, and Reading has developed a new method which is hoped will improve predicting seasonal weather conditions in the UK and Northwest Europe.
Read the Full Story
Study Reveals Impact of Metal Mining Contamination
A groundbreaking study is providing new insights into the impact of metal mining contamination on rivers and floodplains across the world, with an estimated 23 million people believed to be affected by dangerous concentrations of toxic waste.
Read the Full Story
Lincoln Centre Supports National Rivers Campaign
Professors Mark Macklin and Chris Thomas, Co-Directors of the Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health, have joined forces with the New Scientist in support of the Save Britains Rivers Campaign.
Read the Full Story


Agri-food Technology | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnAgri-food Technology
Nurturing Innovation
With a growing world population, climate change, and limited supplies of natural resources, making sure our food and supply chains are robust and effective has arguably never been more important. By focusing on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability, researchers at the University of Lincoln are developing new approaches that are having a major impact across the food chain.
We recognise that the application of technological innovation is crucial to helping to solve some of the big challenges facing agriculture and food production, so our research institutes, centres, and groups are focusing on key areas such as robotics and automation, AI, computer science, energy efficiency, engineering, crop science, and data management applications.
Key Institutes and Centres
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Working closely with industry partners to apply research in real-life settings, supporting industry needs.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact, food-sector-focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
SUSTAIN
Providing a cross-disciplinary doctoral training programme supporting innovative research in AI and sustainable agri-food.
Lincoln Agri-Robotics
The worlds first global centre of excellence in agricultural robotics supporting innovation and technical advancement.
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems
Specialising in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Working closely with industry partners to apply research in real-life settings, supporting industry needs.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact, food-sector-focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
SUSTAIN
Providing a cross-disciplinary doctoral training programme supporting innovative research in AI and sustainable agri-food.
Lincoln Agri-Robotics
The worlds first global centre of excellence in agricultural robotics supporting innovation and technical advancement.
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems
Specialising in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems.
BSc (Hons) Robotics

MSc Agri-food Technology

MSc Robotics and Autonomous Systems

MSc Sustainability

MSc by Research Agricultural Science and Technology

MPhil/PhD Agricultural Science and Technology

Research Spotlight
Agri-tech Revolutions
A 4.9 million grant from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council is helping to deliver a step change in activity and fund the drive to make the Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire region a global innovation centre for agricultural technology.
A Transformative Centre for Doctoral Training
The University of Lincoln, in collaboration with leading partner institutions  University of Aberdeen, Queens University Belfast and University of Strathclyde  has successfully secured 10.6m in funding from UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) to establish SUSTAIN, a transformative Centre for Doctoral Training.
Bringing together the expertise and resources of four academic institutions, SUSTAIN will provide a cross-disciplinary, multi-institution doctoral training programme to support innovative research in the application of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to sustainable agri-food. It will cover technical and social science aspects of AI, alongside training in plant, animal and/or biosciences, tailored to individual students needs and interests.
s Anniversary Prize", 'The University has been awarded the prestigious Queens Anniversary Prize for its work supporting the success and sustainability of the UKs food and farming industries. The award, which is the highest National Honour in UK further and higher education, was presented to Vice Chancellor Professor Neal Juster at a special ceremony held at Buckingham Palace.
Improving Seasonal Weather Forecasts
New research led by the University of Lincoln has developed a new method using AI and machine learning to better understand changes in atmospheric circulation and help to improve predicting seasonal weather conditions in the UK and Northwest Europe.
Recent Developments
Cornerstone of  the Lincolnshire Economy
The University has contributed to a new Parliamentary report which aims to promote and support the UKs horticulture industry, a cornerstone of the Lincolnshire economy.
Read the Full Story
Agri-tech Funding Boost for Regional Partnership
An agri-tech collaboration led by the University of Lincoln has secured vital research funding to develop a truly global agri-tech cluster in the Greater Lincolnshire and East Anglia region.
Read the Full Story
New Facilities for Agri-tech Research
A new net zero glasshouse is being built at our Riseholme Campus, offering businesses in the agricultural sector access to specialist research infrastructure and innovation support.
Read the Full Story
Related Courses
The University of Lincoln offers a number of undergraduate and postgraduate courses that are an integral part of our focus on Agri-food Technology.
BSc (Hons) Robotics

MSc Agri-food Technology

MSc Robotics and Autonomous Systems

MSc Sustainability

MSc by Research Agricultural Science and Technology

MPhil/PhD Agricultural Science and Technology

Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
Working closely with industry partners to apply research in real-life settings, supporting industry needs.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact, food-sector-focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
SUSTAIN
Providing a cross-disciplinary doctoral training programme supporting innovative research in AI and sustainable agri-food.
Lincoln Agri-Robotics
The worlds first global centre of excellence in agricultural robotics supporting innovation and technical advancement.
Lincoln Centre for Autonomous Systems
Specialising in technologies for perception, learning, decision-making, control, and interaction in autonomous systems.
BSc (Hons) Robotics

MSc Agri-food Technology

MSc Robotics and Autonomous Systems

MSc Sustainability

MSc by Research Agricultural Science and Technology

MPhil/PhD Agricultural Science and Technology



Net Zero | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnNet Zero
Tackling the Climate Crisis
As a University, we recognise our responsibility to make meaningful contributions towards reducing carbon emissions, preserving the environment, and creating a sustainable future for generations to come. Our research is now focused firmly on environmental sustainability, and our aim is to be recognised for our local and global impact and leadership in the transition to net zero.
We are committed to producing impactful research that informs policy, shapes industry practice, and helps to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon future. Our research portfolio spans a wide range of disciplines, including renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, law and social policy, and the circular economy, and we are also developing a clear offer to support local, national, and international organisations and businesses to meet their net zero and biodiversity goals.
Key Research Centres and Groups
Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Exploring ecological justice measures to address current environmental emergencies.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Lincoln Climate Research Group
Addressing the physical, social, environmental, and political causes and drivers of climate variations.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
With a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact food sector focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
SUSTAIN
Providing a cross-disciplinary doctoral training programme supporting innovative research in AI and sustainable agri-food.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Catchments and Coasts Research Group
Exploring catchments and coasts, which are critically important to understanding the outcomes of climate change and human impact.
Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Exploring ecological justice measures to address current environmental emergencies.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Lincoln Climate Research Group
Addressing the physical, social, environmental, and political causes and drivers of climate variations.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
With a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact food sector focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
SUSTAIN
Providing a cross-disciplinary doctoral training programme supporting innovative research in AI and sustainable agri-food.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Catchments and Coasts Research Group
Exploring catchments and coasts, which are critically important to understanding the outcomes of climate change and human impact.
MSc Biodiversity, Conservation and Nature Recovery

MSc Chemical Engineering with Sustainability

MSc Energy Materials and Battery Science

MSc Environment and Planetary Health

MSc Sustainability

Research Spotlight
Cleaner and Greener
A research project that aims to reverse the environmental impact of coal via an engineered natural solution that extracts carbon from the atmosphere and returns it back to the geological reserve has been winning plaudits for its innovative approach to sustainability.
Working with Industry
We recognise how important it is to work with business expertise to deliver solutions that reduce carbon emissions, promote sustainable practices, and drive innovation in our region and beyond. For example, our National Centre for Food Manufacturing is collaborating with Princes Group Ltd on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership, bringing in expertise to develop a more fundamental scientific understanding of the food canning process, while in our School of Architecture and the Built Environment, a Carbon LEAF team of specialist architects, building physicists, BREEAM assessors, and experts offer a range of support to businesses undertaking low carbon construction projects.
Were also the proud educational partner to the Yorkshire Energy Park, a next generation energy and technology business park that will drive economic growth, support the local community, and help position the Humber at the forefront of the global transition to net zero.
Tackling Global Emissions
Working in collaboration with global retailer Tesco, our researchers have built an imitation supermarket in a bid to tackle the impact of mass refrigeration on the UKs carbon footprint. The Refrigeration Research Centre is the first facility of its kind in the world, harnessing cutting-edge technology and precisely modeling the essential dynamics of a typical supermarket.
Protecting Our Planet
A new study, led by the University of Lincoln and involving a group of international scientists and experts, has revealed that global climate change-related rises in sea levels could be better predicted by gaining a clearer understanding of the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets.
Recent Developments
Universities Announce New Freeport Collaboration
The Universities of Lincoln and Hull have announced plans to collaborate on a series of key projects along the Humber region relating to sustainability, energy, innovation, and business support.
Read the Full Story
Seafood Industry Boosted by Sustainable Thawing Research
Two Lincolnshire-based organisations have joined forces to identify a fresh and sustainable approach to the freeze/thaw process of seafood produce, which could transform the global seafood industry.
Read the Full Story
Sustainable Seafood as Fish Van Fleet Goes Electric
The sustainable transport of seafood in the UK has taken a major step forward thanks to electrification of Grimsbys fish van fleet, a project led by the University of Lincolns National Centre for Food Manufacturing.
Read the Full Story
Related Courses
The University of Lincoln offers a number of postgraduate courses that are helping to strengthen our research in Net Zero.
MSc Biodiversity, Conservation and Nature Recovery

MSc Chemical Engineering with Sustainability

MSc Energy Materials and Battery Science

MSc Environment and Planetary Health

MSc Sustainability

Lincoln Centre for Ecological Justice
Exploring ecological justice measures to address current environmental emergencies.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Lincoln Climate Research Group
Addressing the physical, social, environmental, and political causes and drivers of climate variations.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
With a clear focus on improving productivity, efficiency, and sustainability through innovation.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Progressing high-impact food sector focused research designed to advance the industry at all points in the supply chain.
SUSTAIN
Providing a cross-disciplinary doctoral training programme supporting innovative research in AI and sustainable agri-food.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Catchments and Coasts Research Group
Exploring catchments and coasts, which are critically important to understanding the outcomes of climate change and human impact.
MSc Biodiversity, Conservation and Nature Recovery

MSc Chemical Engineering with Sustainability

MSc Energy Materials and Battery Science

MSc Environment and Planetary Health

MSc Sustainability



REF2021 | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnResearch Excellence Framework 2021
Research with Impact
79% of our research judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading
Grown our share of sector research power by nearly 50%
History placed first in the UK for the ratio of four-star outputs
87% of research impact for Computer Science rated world-leading
Results from the most recent national Research Excellence Framework (REF), which is a system for measuring research excellence in higher education institutions in the UK, have revealed that more than three quarters (79%) of Lincolns research was judged to be internationally excellent or world-leading (three and four star).
research power
Growing Our Reputation
The results from the latest REF demonstrate the depth and breadth of research now embedded in academic disciplines across the University of Lincoln, consolidating our reputation nationally and internationally for the quality, value, and diversity of the research we undertake.
REF Success Highlights
The University achieved a number ofnotable successes in its REF submissions, including:
REF Impact Case Studies
Many examples of the impact of our research are showcased in our submission to REF 2021, covering 22 different subject areas, and demonstrating the breadth of our research across society, culture, the environment, the economy, and beyond.


Security and Defence | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnSecurity and Defence
Building on a Rich Heritage
As an anchor institution to a region possessing a rich military heritage, the University of Lincoln seeks to engage with our defence and securitycommunity, sharing knowledge, developing skills, and encouraging innovationthrough collaborative research. We are also buildingonour existing sector-wide partnerships to continue to provide evidence-based, sustainable, and forward-thinking solutions for our partners engaged in all forms of defenceand security activity, never more crucial in this ever-changing and unpredictable world.
In recognition of our work, we have been awarded the Armed Forces Covenant Employer Recognition Scheme Gold Award, being one of the first universities to receive this accolade. We continue to uphold our pledge to support members of the armed forces community, including our students, staff, and wider networks.
Key Research Centres and Organisations
Defence and Security Research Network
Seeking to engage with the armed forces and industry partners to find solutions together.
Project Selborne
The University is part of the consortium led by Capita Plc to deliver transformational training and education to the Royal Navy.
International Bomber Command Centre
s Digital Archive has collected personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War Two.", 'Maritime Studies Centre
The University of Lincolns Maritime Studies Centre is an integral part of Britannia Royal Naval College.
Lincoln International Business School
The School offers a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the Armed Forces
Defence and Security Research Network
Seeking to engage with the armed forces and industry partners to find solutions together.
Project Selborne
The University is part of the consortium led by Capita Plc to deliver transformational training and education to the Royal Navy.
International Bomber Command Centre
s Digital Archive has collected personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War Two.", 'Maritime Studies Centre
The University of Lincolns Maritime Studies Centre is an integral part of Britannia Royal Naval College.
Lincoln International Business School
The School offers a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the Armed Forces
FdA Leadership and Management

FdSc Operations Management

FdSc Maritime Studies

BA (Hons) Business Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Open Military)

BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Logistics Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Maritime and Defence Studies

BMus (Hons) Professional Music Studies

MSc Innovation in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance

Industry Spotlight
Securing Our Futures
The Greater Lincolnshire Regional Defence and Security Cluster is bringing together national and international defence organisations, manufacturing, innovation expertise, and research and development to provide a single forum to overcome sector challenges and identify business opportunities across the region.
Working with Our Partners
In collaboration with military organisations, the University offers a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the Armed Forces seeking to gain a new qualification and improve their management skills to progress in their existing careers or prepare for the next.
We also work closely with supply chain organisations such as SRC UK, BAE Systems, and Leonardo to deliver collaborative projects, research, and educational partnerships. Our understanding and experience of the sectors demands and challenges from supplier to end user positions us strongly to help our partners innovate, upskill, and increase productivity.
Recent Developments
Greater Lincolnshire Recognised as Key Defence Region
Greater Lincolnshire has been officially named a Regional Defence and Security Cluster by the Government, building on the countys rich aviation heritage. 
Read the Full Story
Female Police Officers Receive Breast Health Education
Female police officers and staff will learn about the significant impact breast health and bra choices can have on performance and wellbeing as part of a new trial.
Read the Full Story
Historic Partnership Agreement Signed
The Lincolnshire Bomber Command Memorial, which owns and runs the International Bomber Command Trust (IBCC) and the University of Lincoln have entered into a 20-year partnership agreement.
Read the Full Story
Related Courses
The University of Lincoln offers a range of programmes in the area of Security and Defence.
FdA Leadership and Management

FdSc Operations Management

FdSc Maritime Studies

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Open Military)

BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Maritime and Defence Studies

BMus (Hons) Professional Music Studies

MSc Innovation in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance

Defence and Security Research Network
Seeking to engage with the armed forces and industry partners to find solutions together.
Project Selborne
The University is part of the consortium led by Capita Plc to deliver transformational training and education to the Royal Navy.
International Bomber Command Centre
s Digital Archive has collected personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War Two.", 'Maritime Studies Centre
The University of Lincolns Maritime Studies Centre is an integral part of Britannia Royal Naval College.
Lincoln International Business School
The School offers a suite of work-based distance learning programmes for full-time serving, reservist, and veteran members of the Armed Forces
FdA Leadership and Management

FdSc Operations Management

FdSc Maritime Studies

BA (Hons) Business Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Aerospace Engineering and Airworthiness Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Engineering Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Communications Management)

BSc (Hons) Engineering Management (Open Military)

BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Logistics Management (Military)

BSc (Hons) Maritime and Defence Studies

BMus (Hons) Professional Music Studies

MSc Innovation in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance



History and Heritage | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnHistory and Heritage
Exploring the Past
Utilising a range of exceptional and unique local resources, including the International Bomber Command Centre, Lincoln Cathedral Wren Library, the Tennyson Research Centre, and museums, collections, and archives, our researchers are engaged in the study and interpretation of the past, exploring new ways in which history and heritage can transform lives and communities around the world.
By bringing together and sharing expertise from across the University and beyond, we are able to deliver cutting-edge creative, cultural, and historical research activities that cover a wide range of themes, from medieval studies, conservation, and military history, to heritage management, digitalisation, and the critical interpretation of places and traditions.
Key Research Groups and Organisations
Medieval Studies Research Group
Featuring academics, archivists, librarians, and postdoctoral researchers with interdisciplinary interests in the medieval period.
Nineteenth Century Research Group
Taking an interdisciplinary approach to exploring the history, culture, and literature of the long nineteenth century.
Global and Transregional Studies Research Group
Bringing together a group of scholars who share research interests in international, transregional, and global studies.
Visitor Economy Research Group
Providing a deeper understanding of the visitor economy in areas such as tourism, hospitality, heritage, events, and leisure.
International Bomber Command Centre
s Digital Archive has collected personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War Two.", 'Centre for Conservation and Cultural Heritage Research
Formed to coordinate research activities in conservation, history, and science in relation to the heritage sector.
Heritage Archives Network
A forum for those teaching, researching, or working in archives and the heritage sector more broadly.
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
Critical heritage considers places, pasts, and traditions in contemporary life alongside current concerns about conservation.
Medieval Studies Research Group
Featuring academics, archivists, librarians, and postdoctoral researchers with interdisciplinary interests in the medieval period.
Nineteenth Century Research Group
Taking an interdisciplinary approach to exploring the history, culture, and literature of the long nineteenth century.
Global and Transregional Studies Research Group
Bringing together a group of scholars who share research interests in international, transregional, and global studies.
Visitor Economy Research Group
Providing a deeper understanding of the visitor economy in areas such as tourism, hospitality, heritage, events, and leisure.
International Bomber Command Centre
s Digital Archive has collected personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War Two.", 'Centre for Conservation and Cultural Heritage Research
Formed to coordinate research activities in conservation, history, and science in relation to the heritage sector.
Heritage Archives Network
A forum for those teaching, researching, or working in archives and the heritage sector more broadly.
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
Critical heritage considers places, pasts, and traditions in contemporary life alongside current concerns about conservation.
BA (Hons) Classical Studies

BA (Hons) Conservation of Cultural Heritage

BA (Hons) History

BA (Hons) Modern History

MA Conservation of Cultural Heritage

MA Cultural Heritage Management

MA History

MA Medieval Studies

MA by Research Classical Studies

MA by Research Conservation

MA by Research History

MPhil/PhD Conservation of Cultural Heritage

MPhil/PhD Classical Studies

MPhil/PhD Culture and Heritage Management

MPhil/PhD History

MPhil/PhD Medieval Studies

Research Spotlight
Conserving Our Heritage
The University is home to Lincoln Conservation, a research and consultancy centre specialising in the conservation and restoration of the interior and exterior features of listed and historic buildings. It has worked with high-profile clients, including the National Trust, English Heritage, and the V&A Museum.
Developing Stronger Collaborations
The University of Lincoln has developed strong relationships with the wider scholarly and professional community, including the International Bomber Command Centre, Lincoln Cathedral Library and Archives, the Lincoln Record Society, Royal Historical Society, The Historical Association, Historic England, British Archaeological Association, and the International Society for the Study of Medievalism.
These collaborations and partnerships are helping to strengthen our research community, which continues to offer dynamic approaches to the study of history and heritage, in local, national, and international contexts.
Learning Food Lessons from the Past
To help tackle current global food crises, researchers and practitioners are turning to the past, examining successes and failures of previous interventions in different societies and agricultures to help inform the work of foresight planners and build scenarios for future food sustainability and security.
If Books Could Talk'", 'The If Books Could Talk project brought together an interdisciplinary team of artists and researchers to produce a creative response to the Lincoln Cathedral Librarys collection, which featured visual and sound elements, as well as a student-focused workshop exploring how archives can be a vital resource for dramatists, literary scholars, and social historians.

Recent Developments
Lincoln Archaeologist Awarded British Academy Medal
Professor Carenza Lewis has been awarded a British Academy medal in recognition of her distinguished accomplishments in landscape archaeology and lasting impact on the social sciences.
Read the Full Story
Historic Partnership Agreement Signed
The Lincolnshire Bomber Command Memorial, which owns and runs the International Bomber Command Trust (IBCC) and the University of Lincoln have entered into a 20-year partnership agreement.
Read the Full Story
Lincoln Academic is Honoured by The Society of Apothecaries
Professor Anna Marie Roos, who is a Professor of the History of Science at the University of Lincoln, has received a prestigious honour from the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries in recognition of her work.
Read the Full Story
Related Courses
The University of Lincoln offers a number of undergraduate and postgraduate courses that are helping to strengthen our research in History and Heritage.
BA (Hons) Classical Studies

BA (Hons) Conservation of Cultural Heritage

BA (Hons) History

BA (Hons) Modern History

MA Conservation of Cultural Heritage

MA Cultural Heritage Management

MA History

MA Medieval Studies

MA by Research Classical Studies

MA by Research Conservation

MA by Research History

MPhil/PhD Conservation of Cultural Heritage

MPhil/PhD Classical Studies

MPhil/PhD Culture and Heritage Management

MPhil/PhD History

MPhil/PhD Medieval Studies

Medieval Studies Research Group
Featuring academics, archivists, librarians, and postdoctoral researchers with interdisciplinary interests in the medieval period.
Nineteenth Century Research Group
Taking an interdisciplinary approach to exploring the history, culture, and literature of the long nineteenth century.
Global and Transregional Studies Research Group
Bringing together a group of scholars who share research interests in international, transregional, and global studies.
Visitor Economy Research Group
Providing a deeper understanding of the visitor economy in areas such as tourism, hospitality, heritage, events, and leisure.
International Bomber Command Centre
s Digital Archive has collected personal stories of those caught in the bombing during World War Two.", 'Centre for Conservation and Cultural Heritage Research
Formed to coordinate research activities in conservation, history, and science in relation to the heritage sector.
Heritage Archives Network
A forum for those teaching, researching, or working in archives and the heritage sector more broadly.
Critical Heritage and Place Consumption
Critical heritage considers places, pasts, and traditions in contemporary life alongside current concerns about conservation.
BA (Hons) Classical Studies

BA (Hons) Conservation of Cultural Heritage

BA (Hons) History

BA (Hons) Modern History

MA Conservation of Cultural Heritage

MA Cultural Heritage Management

MA History

MA Medieval Studies

MA by Research Classical Studies

MA by Research Conservation

MA by Research History

MPhil/PhD Conservation of Cultural Heritage

MPhil/PhD Classical Studies

MPhil/PhD Culture and Heritage Management

MPhil/PhD History

MPhil/PhD Medieval Studies



Rural and Coastal Health | Research at Lincoln | University of LincolnRural and Coastal Health
Towards a Healthier Future
Producing purposeful knowledge with real-world impact drives the University of Lincolns research in health and wellbeing. Working with local, national, and international partners, our academics are developing new insights into a wide range of health-related challenges, including pre-hospital treatment, healthy ageing, child wellbeing, and community-based care.
Located in a rural region, the University of Lincoln is alert to the particular challenges and opportunities facing non-urban communities in the UK and around the world. Our researchers are leading multidisciplinary studies that are making a tangible difference in these areas, addressing issues such as infectious disease epidemiology, anti-microbial resistance, environmental impact, health inequalities, and access to effective treatments and services.
Key Research Institutes, Centres, and Groups
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
Conducting world-class research to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities across the world.
Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Addressing and understanding the pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Community and Health Research Unit
With a mission to enhance peoples health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities.
Autism Research Innovation Centre
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare Research Group
Researchers working at the forefront of, and interface between life, environmental, health, computing, and social sciences.
Cancer and Ageing Research Group
Adopting a multidisciplinary approach to increase understanding of disease associated with ageing at the molecular level.
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Investigating the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor, and behavioural processes.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation Research Group
A vision to create a strong, dynamic, and engaged culture to carry out research that has the potential for real-world impact.
Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group
Exploring pre-clinical aspects, from the identification of novel drug targets to the development of improved methods of delivery. 
Evolution and Ecology Research Group
Exploring the evolution and ecology of populations, species, and communities across all levels of biological organisation.
Forensic and Crime Research Group
Researching the application of psychological knowledge and methods to areas relating to crime and justice.
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Research aims to support the challenges faced by an increasing global life expectancy and ageing populations.
Mental Health and Health Care Research Group
Providing expert knowledge and guidance to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Microbiology and Biotechnology Research Group
Answering fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation, and testing of microorganisms and viruses. 
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Specialising in developing and applying contemporary psychological science to address health-related challenges.
Social Psychology Research Group
Conducting research on individuals emotions, thoughts, and behaviours in diverse social contexts.
Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
Conducting world-class research to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities across the world.
Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Addressing and understanding the pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Community and Health Research Unit
With a mission to enhance peoples health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities.
Autism Research Innovation Centre
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare Research Group
Researchers working at the forefront of, and interface between life, environmental, health, computing, and social sciences.
Cancer and Ageing Research Group
Adopting a multidisciplinary approach to increase understanding of disease associated with ageing at the molecular level.
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Investigating the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor, and behavioural processes.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation Research Group
A vision to create a strong, dynamic, and engaged culture to carry out research that has the potential for real-world impact.
Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group
Exploring pre-clinical aspects, from the identification of novel drug targets to the development of improved methods of delivery. 
Evolution and Ecology Research Group
Exploring the evolution and ecology of populations, species, and communities across all levels of biological organisation.
Forensic and Crime Research Group
Researching the application of psychological knowledge and methods to areas relating to crime and justice.
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Research aims to support the challenges faced by an increasing global life expectancy and ageing populations.
Mental Health and Health Care Research Group
Providing expert knowledge and guidance to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Microbiology and Biotechnology Research Group
Answering fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation, and testing of microorganisms and viruses. 
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Specialising in developing and applying contemporary psychological science to address health-related challenges.
Social Psychology Research Group
Conducting research on individuals emotions, thoughts, and behaviours in diverse social contexts.
Undergraduate Courses

Postgraduate Taught

Postgraduate Research

Continuing Professional Development

Flexible Learning

Research Spotlight
Transforming Young Lives
A new research project is questioning popular myths about young dads, who instead of being uncaring and irresponsible are demonstrating a desire to be positively involved in their childrens lives, while also advocating for more father-inclusive practices at a national level.
Working in Partnership
s research strategy lies in developing partnerships with a wide range of communities, organisations, and researchers in a bid to design and deliver projects that are beneficial to service users and which influence policy, practice, and procedures in health and social care services.", 'We work with key organisations such as the NHS, the National Institute for Health Research, the National Centre for Rural Health and Care, and many other local and national health and social care groups to help deliver impactful research that is making a positive impact across the generations.
Mobile Arts for Peace
Mobile Arts for Peace is an international, multidisciplinary project which has been using arts-based practices for peacebuilding in Kyrgyzstan, Rwanda, Indonesia, and Nepal. It is a collaborative project between universities, cultural artists, civil society organisations, and young people and families in local communities.
Learning Lessons from the Past
To help tackle current global food crises, researchers and practitioners are turning to the past, examining successes and failures of previous interventions in different societies and agricultures to help inform the work of foresight planners and build scenarios for future food sustainability and security.
Recent Developments
Report Highlights Farmers Concerns About Cultured Meat
While some UK farmers see the development of cultured or cell-based meat as potential competition to traditional meat production, others have suggested it could create a premium for pasture-reared meat.
Read the Full Story
Innovative Start-up Develops Sustainable Infant Food
s National Centre for Food Manufacturing, is developing new products to offer busy families a nutrient-dense, sustainable, and convenient option for children.", 'Read the Full Story
How Watching TV Could Help Treat Psychological Distress
Research from a psychology academic at the University of Lincoln suggests film therapy could receive a professional stamp of approval as an effective psychological model.
Read the Full Story
Related Courses
The University of Lincoln offers a range of programmes in health and social care, including undergraduate and postgraduate courses, continuing professional development, and flexible learning options. Discover more by using our course searches below.
Undergraduate Courses

Postgraduate Taught

Postgraduate Research

Continuing Professional Development

Flexible Learning

Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
Conducting world-class research to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities across the world.
Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Addressing and understanding the pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Focusing on solving the most pressing environmental and societal issues emerging from water-related risks.
Community and Health Research Unit
With a mission to enhance peoples health and wellbeing and reduce inequalities.
Autism Research Innovation Centre
Focusing on strengthening the wider autism community through participatory action research.
Lincoln Sleep Research Centre
Utilising advanced sleep research facilities and collaborating on studies around the world.
Animal Behaviour, Cognition and Welfare Research Group
Researchers working at the forefront of, and interface between life, environmental, health, computing, and social sciences.
Cancer and Ageing Research Group
Adopting a multidisciplinary approach to increase understanding of disease associated with ageing at the molecular level.
Development and Behaviour Research Group
Investigating the development of cognitive, language, social, emotional, motor, and behavioural processes.
Development, Inequality, Resilience and Environments (DIRE)
Addressing the most urgent and immediate threats to the resilience of human-environment systems.
Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation Research Group
A vision to create a strong, dynamic, and engaged culture to carry out research that has the potential for real-world impact.
Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery Research Group
Exploring pre-clinical aspects, from the identification of novel drug targets to the development of improved methods of delivery. 
Evolution and Ecology Research Group
Exploring the evolution and ecology of populations, species, and communities across all levels of biological organisation.
Forensic and Crime Research Group
Researching the application of psychological knowledge and methods to areas relating to crime and justice.
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Research aims to support the challenges faced by an increasing global life expectancy and ageing populations.
Mental Health and Health Care Research Group
Providing expert knowledge and guidance to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Microbiology and Biotechnology Research Group
Answering fundamental questions relating to the characterisation, evaluation, and testing of microorganisms and viruses. 
Psychological Health and Wellbeing Research Group
Specialising in developing and applying contemporary psychological science to address health-related challenges.
Social Psychology Research Group
Conducting research on individuals emotions, thoughts, and behaviours in diverse social contexts.
Undergraduate Courses

Postgraduate Taught

Postgraduate Research

Continuing Professional Development

Flexible Learning



Improving Seasonal Weather Forecasts | Research Features | University of LincolnResearch Spotlight
Improving Seasonal Weather Forecasts
Could the Unreliable British Summer Soon Be a Thing of the Past?
Accurate seasonal weather forecasts are a vital tool not just for holidaymakers, they also have great impact on a range of sectors, from shaping public safety policies such as flood prevention strategies, to helping the agricultural industry mitigate low crop yields which would increase prices for consumers.
Research led by Edward Hanna, Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology at the University of Lincoln, has developed a new method using AI and machine learning which could improve predicting seasonal weather conditions in the UK and Northwest Europe.
The NARMAX model offers a powerful tool in the quest to better understand changes in atmospheric circulation as well as making more accurate seasonal weather predictions. It could also benefit many sectors, including agri-food, energy, leisure, and tourism industries.
Our published papers demonstrate great potential for NARMAX modelling to play a significant role in helping to refine the next generation of supercomputer forecasting models, which have been historically computationally hungry, and in enhancing seasonal forecasts.
Professor Edward Hanna
Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology
To predict seasonal weather over Northwest Europe, major weather forecasting centres currently rely on expensive supercomputer models. To supplement these conventional methods, the group used an AI and machine learning method known as NARMAX (Nonlinear AutoRegressive Moving Average models with eXogenous inputs) to predict the state of the North Atlantic jet stream and atmospheric circulation, both strongly linked to surface air temperature and precipitation anomalies.
NARMAX has been used successfully in many other fields of research and in this case, early predictions were made for both summer and winter, for several different air circulation patterns which commonly affect the North Atlantic region and subsequent Northwest European seasonal weather.
The study results showed high accuracy for both seasons, and all three circulation patterns examined. This is important because the conventional and more expensive supercomputer models struggle to accurately predict seasonal atmospheric conditions over this area in summer, tending to underestimate year-to-year variations for both seasons.
In addition, the NARMAX method has been used to analyse possible causes of atmospheric circulation changes. This information could be used for interpretation and to help improve the supercomputer model outputs.
The Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health
Our Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health focuses on solving global environmental and societal challenges, including hydrological and sea-level impacts of climate change, as well as behavioural, political, and economic adaptation mechanisms to mitigate environmental and human health impacts.
"This breakthrough has significant implications that could play a crucial role in improving seasonal forecasting, as well as informing the development of future weather forecasting models, particularly during the summer months," explains Edward Hanna, Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology.
This is an exciting project that has brought together diverse disciplines and experts in meteorological science and machine learning with the aims of improving seasonal weather prediction and applying the results to end users."
The three-year research project Northwest European Seasonal Weather Prediction from Complex Systems Modelling was allocated 650,000 UK Government grant funding from the Natural Environment Research Council, part of UK Research and Innovation.
The research is published in the Royal Meteorological Society journals, Meteorological Applications and International Journal of Climatology.
Meet the Expert
Edward Hanna is Professor of Climate Science and Meteorology and a Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society. His research specialisms include climate change and meteorology, seasonal weather prediction, and solar eclipses.
Discover More
Read the latest news and find out more about the innovative and impactful research that is taking place at the University of Lincoln.
Protecting Our Planet
A new study involving a group of international scientists and experts has revealed that global climate change-related rises in sea levels could be better predicted by gaining a clearer understanding of the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets.
Read the Full Story
Study Reveals Impact of Metal Mining Contamination
A groundbreaking study is providing new insights into the impact of metal mining contamination on rivers and floodplains across the world, with an estimated 23 million people believed to be affected by dangerous concentrations of toxic waste.
Read the Full Story
Lincoln Centre Supports National Rivers Campaign
Professors Mark Macklin and Chris Thomas, Co-Directors of the Lincoln Centre for Water and Planetary Health, have joined forces with the New Scientist in support of the Save Britains Rivers Campaign.
Read the Full Story


