Participation | School of Health and Social Care | University of LincolnParticipation
Shaping the future of health and social care... together
The University of Lincoln provides opportunities for patients, service users and carers to become involved in education and research. Help us equip our students with the skills, knowledge, lived experience and confidence to improve the quality of care for all.
Who can participate?Everyone.
As nearly all of us use health and social care services we want to meet people from different communities and backgrounds who can share their lived experience with our students and staff. This includes people who have learning disabilities, physical disabilities, and people who have used mental health, physiotherapy or occupational therapy services. We also want to work with parents, children, young people and carers.

Find out more
Eparticipation@lincoln.ac.uk
T+44 (0)1522 886251
Ffacebook.com/LincolnHSCParticipation/
Open Books
Open Books has landed and you have the opportunity to share a short clip of your personal story.
s like to be you; whether that is listening to your experience of living with an illness or injury, or what it's like to face prejudice or discrimination. Maybe you are a carer for someone and what to tell our students how it feels to look after someone you love. Did you perhaps get 'given' your diagnosis in an unhelpful or harmful way.", 'Whatever your story, we want to hear it.
Contact Lucy our Participation Worker at lpicksley@lincoln.ac.uk now to find out more and become the next chapter in our Open Books series.
Bringing learning online'", 'u200cu200cu200c
Download the Participation Flyer PDF
Register with the Centre for the Advancement of Interprofessional Education to receive their monthly newsletter and view previous ones.


Placements | School of Health and Social Care | University of LincolnPractice Placements
About Practice Placements
Practice placements are an integral part of the University of Lincoln Health and Social Care programmes where students will spend part of their course learning in practice, applying the knowledge and skills they are learning at the University.
The opportunity to learn while taking on the roles and responsibilities of the workplace allows our students to put the theory they have learnt at the University into practice and develop their practical skills within a real environment.
A Guide to Healthcare Placements
Placements are an important, mandatory requirement for most Healthcare programmes leading to a registration. They enable you to directly apply your study and theory knowledge in a physical practice setting. Usually this will contribute to the overall assessment of your performance on the programme.

What You Need to Know
Currently Professional Requirements are as follows: 
We work with a range of placement providers including hospitals, care homes, hospices, voluntary organisations, educational establishments, local authorities, and private companies. Placement opportunities will be matched to students appropriately, according to the specific guidance of their regulatory body.
You will have at least 2 weeks notice of where your placement will be based. Students will be expected to follow the dress code and work patterns of your profession. This may include weekends or nights. Most students will work a 37-hour week whilst on placement and may involve travel across the county of Lincolnshire.
The University has an award-winning Student Support and Wellbeing Service on-site on our Brayford campus. They are on-hand to support you throughout your studies, including when you are on placement. Academic staff are also there to support you and on placement you will have regular access to your personal tutor and our dedicated team of practice education staff.
Top Tips for Healthcare Students
We talk to former Paramedic Science Student Alex about her top tips for Health and Social Care students.

[...] One of the reasons I chose the course was because it had work experience as part of it... Gaining experience, enhancing skills of working with people, teachers, pupils and people from outside. Meeting other professionals was really helpful. [It] really helped me plan for future career.
Hollie Bassington
Health and Social Care
Contact Us
University of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 practice.learninghub@lincoln.ac.uk


Physiotherapy Placements | Placements | University of LincolnWelcome
Welcome to the Physiotherapy Practice Placement section. Within this section you will find useful information and resources for both students and our practice partners of the University of Lincoln.
We have prepared detailed information packs for both placement providers and students about to go on placement. Please click on the relevant link below to download your information pack.
If you are interested in providing a placement within your organisation, please contact us by using the email address provided at the bottom of this page.

Contactthe Practice Placement Team:


Social Work Placements | Placements | University of LincolnWelcome
Welcome to the Social Work Practice Placement section. Within this section you will find useful information and resources for both students and our practice partners of the University of Lincoln.
We have prepared detailed information packs for both placement providers and students about to go on placement. Please click on the relevant link below to download your information pack.
If you are interested in providing a placement within your organisation, please contact us by using the email address provided at the bottom of this page.

Contactthe Practice Placement Team:
For all general enquiries please emailpracticeplacements@lincoln.ac.uk


Occupational Therapy Placements | Placements | University of LincolnWelcome
Welcome to the Occupational Therapy Placement section. Within this section you will find useful information and resources for both students and our practice partners of the University of Lincoln.
We have prepared detailed information packs for both placement providers and students about to go on placement. Please click on the relevant link below to download your information pack.
If you are interested in providing a placement within your organisation, please contact us by using the email address provided at the bottom of this page.

Contactthe Practice Placement Team:
For all general enquiries please emailOTpractice@lincoln.ac.uk


HARG | Research | University of LincolnThe Age of Research
TheHealthy Ageing Research Group (HARG)is allied with theLincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH).
Key areas of interest include experiences of ageing; healthy ageing; preventative and early intervention strategies in quality of later life through improved community and statutory provisions, including integration.
Research in our group aims to support the challenges faced by an increasing global life expectancy and ageing populations. Our research aims to contribute to developing strategies which maximise the benefits of an ageing society as well as considering strategies to address the challenges.
Our aims:
Academic Staff
Professor Mo Ray
Health and Social Care Integration/Director of Research
Professor Steve McKay
Distinguished Professor in Social Research
Reader, School of Architecture and Design
Senior Lecturer, School of Health and Social Car
Research Assistant, School of Health and Social Care
Global Professor of Rural Health and Care, Lincoln International Institute of Rural Health
Global Professor in Machine Learning, School of Computer Science
Research Fellow in Rural Health and Care, Lincoln International Institute of Rural Health
Research Fellow in Rural Health and Care, Lincoln International Institute of Rural Health
Senior Lecturer in Public Health, School of Medicine
Research Fellow, School of Health and Social Care
Research Associate, School of Health and Social Care
Research Associate, School of Health and Social Care
Senior Lecturer, School of Psychology
Senior Lecturer, School of Psychology
Associate Professor, School of Sport and Exercise Science
Associate Lecturer, School of Sport and Exercise Science
Lecturer in Sports Psychology, School of Sport and Exercise Science
Associate Members
Dr Haydn Bird
Mr Stephen Johnson
Adults Supporting Adults
Adults Supporting Adults
Chief Executive, LINCa (consortium of third sector organisations)
Chief Executive, Healthwatch Lincoln
Chief Executive, LACE Housing
Employment & Skills Team Leader, Greater Lincolnshire LEP
Michele Seddon
Chief Executive, Age UK, Lincoln
Fiona White
Chief Executive, Community Lincs
Research Students
Thomas George
Rebecca Turner
Connect Online:
Community and Health Research Unit
CaHRUsmissionis to increase peoples health and well-being by improving the quality, performance, and systems of care across the health, social, and third sector care services.
Research in Mental Health, Health and Social Care
The primary focus of this research group is to provide expert resources to government policy strategists, health, social, and education economies to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit
The Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit (LinCTU) was setup in 2020 at the University of Lincoln by the Community & Health Research Unit to support clinical trials.
School of Health and Social Care Research Groups


Undergraduate Courses | School of Health and Social Care | University of Lincoln


Research | School of Health and Social Care | University of LincolnResearch
A major focus of the School's research strategy lies in developing partnerships with a wide range of communities, services and researchers in order to design and deliver projects which are beneficial to service users and which influence policy, practice and procedures in health and social care services.
Current research within the School of Health and Social Care includes partnerships with the following:

Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
shine a light' on the unacceptable place-based health inequities across the rural-urban divide and to find innovative ways of reducing or ideally eliminating that inequality.", 'Read More

Community and Health Research Unit
The Community and Health Research Unitconducts research on quality and improvement in health and social care, focusing on primary care, prehospital care and older...
Read More


Research in Mental Health, Health and Social Care
The purpose of Research in Mental Health, Health and Social Care (MH2aSC) is to provide a focus and to accelerate research in mental health, mental well-being and transformation...
Read More



Healthy Ageing Research Group
TheHealthy Ageing Research Group (HARG)is a research centre for theSchool of Health and Social Care, situated in the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities at the University of Lincoln.
Read More



Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit (LinCTU)
The Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit (LinCTU) was setup in 2020 at the University of Lincoln by the Community & Health Research Unit to support clinical trials.
Read More



Probation Healthcare Commissioning Toolkit
The Probation Healthcare Commissioning Toolkit is a resource for commissioners and practitioners in health and criminal justice.
Read More


Social Work | Apprenticeships | University of LincolnIntroduction to the Apprenticeship
Our Social Work Degree Apprenticeship aims to prepare graduates for working as qualified social workers in a varied, complex, and challenging profession with individuals, families, and communities across all fields of social work and in all social work settings.
The School of Health and Social Care works with employers to provide employees with the opportunity to study for an undergraduate Social Work degree through an apprenticeship route. Funded by the Government and your employer, the apprenticeship combines work-based learning and education for social work, which upon successful completion leads to a degree and professional recognition, enabling you to apply to register as a social worker with Social Work England.
Benefits to Employers
The programme is suitable for new and existing social care staff who are responsible for delivering direct services and who have the potential to take on greater challenges and responsibility as qualified social workers.
The programme aims to enable employers to:
How You Study
The Social Work Degree Apprenticeship is a three-year (36 months/45 week working year) practice-based programme combining learning and development through academic study and through practice through the workplace and alternative practice placements. The programme aims todevelop your awareness of the knowledge, theories, skills, and values for professional practice as a social worker and applying professional skills and knowledge within a work-based context.
Apprentices learn through:
Students study one day a week at the University with one protected learning day and three practice days per week.
Year One
Social Work: Developing Self
Year Two
Social Work: Developing Others
Year Three
Social Work: Developing Leadership
Support
Students are supported in their learning and development by a range of people with expertise in social work, including a teaching team who haveextensive experience as academics and of working in social work agencies and practice settings as senior worker. A range of other support includes a dedicated placement team, to support placements; service users, carers and other professionals to share their experiences and expertise; a dedicated Subject Librarian; Student Support and Wellbeing Service, for access to services and information. In addition, students are supported by:
Fees and Funding
Employees:
If you wish to undertake this degree you will need an employer who can support your application as the course can be funded through government co-funding or the apprenticeship levy.
Employers:
If you are an organisation with a wage bill of 3 million pounds or more you will pay a small levy on any amount above that level. You can use that resulting funds to pay 100% of the course fees for any degree apprenticeships.
From April 2019 for new apprentices starting a programme non-levy paying employers will share the cost of training and assessing their apprentices with government - this is called co-investment. You will now pay 5% towards the cost of apprenticeship training. The government will pay the rest (95%) up to the funding band maximum. If you are an employer with less than 50 employees and the Apprentice has been in the care of the local authority, meeting certain criteria, and/or has an Educational and Health Plan, you may be eligible for full costs.
Entry Requirements
The programme is suitable for new and existing social care staff, who are responsible for delivering direct services and who have the potential to take on greater challenges and responsibility as qualified social workers. Candidates have to be employed over 30 hours a week in a relevant job role.
Applicants need their employer to agree to fund the course, either through government co-funding or the apprenticeship levy. Applicants also need to demonstrate their ability to study academic subjects at degree level, debate topics and issues, study independently as well as a member of a group, and successfully complete a range of assignments including researched essays and practical tests.
Applicants must also have the right to live and work in the UK and at least 50% of their normal working hours must be in England.
They will need Maths and English Level 2, one year of direct experience in social care, and a driving licence.
Contact Us
Enquiries
T:01522 882000


Visiting Professors | School of Health and Social Care | University of LincolnVisiting Professors
Roderick rner is Consultant Clinical Psychologist in private practice and visiting professor of clinical psychology at the University of Lincoln where he was awarded his PhD in 2005. His clinical experience comprises of specialist assessment and therapy for adult patients especially following exposure to traumatic events in the maritime industries (ForceMajeureMaritime.com). He is a Fellow of the British Psychological Society. His trauma related research interests range from British Falklands War Veterans, European War Veterans and the provision of psychological support services for emergency responder groups. He hosted the First European Conference on Traumatic Stress in Lincoln in 1988 and has maintained a leading role within the European Society for Traumatic Stress Studies of which he was President between 1997 and 1999. He is senior editor of Reconstructing Early Intervention after Trauma 2003 by Oxford University Press. Current research interests include improving sleep management in primary care and aspects of ambulance care. His new book 'Kick Your Bad Habits And Repeat Less Often, written for a popular science readership, is set for publication during 2016.
Aly Rashid graduated from the University of Manchester in 1982. He trained as an academic GP and gained his MD in 1995 whilst working as a GP in Leicester. He was appointed to the first chair in Primary Care at De Montfort University in Leicester 1998, where he was the head of department researching and publishing widely until he moved to be Associate Director at the National Clinical Assessment Service in London. Aly has held posts of National Chair of Education and National Leadership Programme Director at the RCGP as well as being Associate postgraduate Dean in Leicester. He was appointed by the Secretary of State to serve as a member of the Tooke Independent Inquiry into Modernising Medical Careers in 2007/08.
Mohammad Iqbal is a Research Associate at the East Midlands Ambulance Service NHS Trust in Lincoln and a Visiting Fellow at the University of Lincoln. He graduated MBBS in 1984 and worked in health programmes for the government of Bangladesh, West Indies, Middle East and West Africa. He trained in Community Health and Tropical Medicine and gained his masters in 1992 and postgraduate Diploma in Tropical Medicine and Hygiene in 1993 from the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine. His current interests are in healthcare quality improvement and prehospital research. Iqbal is also undertaking a part time PhD at the University of Lincoln researching pain management in ambulance services.
Deborah Shaw is a visiting fellow at the University of Lincoln and is Clinical Audit and Research Manager at East Midlands Ambulance Service, NHS Trust. She has worked in the ambulance service in Lincolnshire since 1994 starting as a secretary, developing and interest in audit and research after moving to the Clinical Governance department in 2002 as a data analyst. She was part of the team which introduced research into the (then) Lincolnshire Ambulance Service which gave her the opportunity to complete an MSc Medical and Health Sciences. In 2009 she became a Clinical Audit and Research Manager. Current interests include qualitative pre-hospital emergency care research and quality improvement.
Sami Timimi is a Consultant Child and Adolescent Psychiatrist and Director of Medical Education in the NHS in Lincolnshire and a Visiting Professor of Child Psychiatry and Mental Health Improvement at the University of Lincoln, UK. He writes from a critical psychiatry perspective on topics relating to mental health and childhood and has published over a hundred articles and tens of chapters on many subjects including childhood, psychotherapy, behavioural disorders and cross-cultural psychiatry. He has authored 4 books including Naughty Boys: Anti-Social Behaviour, ADHD and the Role of Culture, co-edited 4 books including, with Carl Cohen, Libratory Psychiatry: Philosophy, Politics and Mental Health, and co-authored 2 others including, with Neil Gardiner and Brian McCabe, The Myth of Autism: Medicalising Mens and Boys Social and Emotional Competence.
Tony Butterworth is a qualified mental health and general nurse with significant experience in hospital and community settings as well as in teaching and research. He has published extensively and supervised more than 20 students to the successful completion of their PhD.
He worked as a clinical nurse in acute mental health services, emergency and orthopaedic care and in community psychiatry. He developed and led one of the first educational courses for community psychiatric nurses in the world and developed original work on clinical supervision for nurses, midwives and health visitors.
He became the inaugural Chair and Queens Nursing Institute Professor of Community Nursing at the University of Manchester in 1987 where he undertook original and ground breaking research into clinical supervision for clinicians and in the development of psychosocial education for people with schizophrenia. He was invited by the UK Secretary of State for Health to lead a Government review of mental health nursing in 1994 and became General Secretary for the World Health Organisations Collaborating Centres for Nursing in 1997.
Following periods as a Head of Department and Dean of School, he became a Pro-Vice Chancellor for external affairs for the University of Manchester in 1998. He was elected by his academic peers to be the first Chair of the Council of Deans of Health in 1997.
He returned to an appointment in the NHS as Chief Executive for Trent Workforce Confederation in 2001 and became Director of a Research Centre for Clinical and Academic Workforce Innovation at the University of Lincoln in 2005. He and his team led the UKCRC review of Clinical Academic Careers for Nursing and the health professions, work completed in late 2007. He was granted the title Emeritus Professor by the University of Lincoln in 2008.
He was elected to be first Chair of the Academy of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Visiting Research (UK) from 2008 to 2011.
In December 2011 he was invited by the UK Secretary of State to become Chair of the NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement and has recently also become Chair of the Foundation of Nursing Studies. He is a Trustee of Dementia UK and the RCN Charitable Foundation.
Honours: Commander of the British Empire (CBE);Fellow of the Royal College of Nursing (FRCN); Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci); Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Psychiatrists (FRCPsych); Fellow of the Queens Nursing Institute (FQNI); Fellow of the Royal Society for the Arts (FRSA); Fellowship, Sigma Theta Tau Honor Society (USA); Honorary Doctor of Science, University of Huddersfield, Honorary Fellow for Health Innovation NHSII.
Christine qualified as a therapeutic radiographer in 1973 which allowed her to pursue her interests in radiation science and caring for patients. She moved across into academic radiography and became principal of the Nottingham School of Radiotherapy in 1988. She developed her research interests around clinical competence and gained her M. Phil and PhD in this area of study. In 2001, she was appointed as the multi-professional advisor to the Trent Deanery and the Trent Workforce Development Confederation. Working with Professor Tony Butterworth, she undertook a number of Department of Health sponsored projects to support the clinical academic workforce across health and social care. This work culminated in the creation, in 2007, of a national programme funded by the National Institute of Health Research, to support nurses, midwives and allied health professionals to undertake clinically relevant Masters, PhD, post -doctoral and senior clinical scientist awards. The model is now replicated across all four countries within the UK and at regional and local levels. Christine moved to the University of Lincoln in 2007, as a Principal Research Fellow and the clinical academic work steam continues through the Mental Health, Health and Social Care Research Group. She is a founder member of an international network of academic nurses - Udine C network, and a visiting professor at the University of Maribor, Slovenia.
Christine is a registration assessor partner for the Health and Care Professions Council since 2000 and prior to that, chaired the Radiography Registration Committee for the Council for Professions Allied to Medicine.
Together with Professor Tony Butterworth, Christine has presented research on clinical academic careers at international conferences and has published widely.
She is a founder member of the Women into Research Group with the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities and has published on the gender differences experienced by professors in health and social care. She is a member of the University of Lincolns Athena Swan SET mentoring pipeline programme and undertook an evaluation of the early pipeline mentoring programmes supporting female researchers at the university. She is the lead for Athena Swan Equality Charter Unit Assessment Team for the School of Health and Social Care.
In 2017, following her retirement from the University of Lincoln, she was awarded an Honorary Fellowship of the University in recognition of her research achievements within the University and the national and international researcher workforce environment.


CaHRU | Research | University of LincolnAn Important Influence
TheCommunity and Health Research Unit (CaHRU)is aUniversity recognised research centre.
CaHRUsmissionis to increase peoples health and well-being by improving the quality, performance, and systems of care across the health, social, and third sector care services through our world-leading interdisciplinary research. Our work promotes high-quality care to enhance the experience, safety, effectiveness, efficiency and equity of healthcare by examining and transforming the performance and function of health and social care practice, organisation and delivery.
Our Research Is Different
The aim of our work is to engage service users, carers, practitioners, managers,commissioners, and policymakers in our research activities whilst maximising the impact of our research by responding to service priorities, working with service users and care organisations to embed research findings into practice through a variety of media.
CaHRU is at the forefront internationally of translational and implementation research in the prehospital and primary care setting which identifies gaps in care, develops interventions to address these gaps and evaluates the effects of these interventions, using a variety of methods ranging from systematic reviews, through qualitative, quantitative, and mixed designs to clinical trials.
Academic Staff
Professor A N Siriwardena
Professor of Primary and Pre-Hospital Healthcare
Professor Graham Law
Professor in Medical Studies
Dr Zahid Asghar
Senior Lecturer
DrCoral Sirdifield
Research Assistant
Viet-Hai Phung
Research Assistant
Despina Laparidou
Research Assistant
Sue Bowler
Administrator
Joseph Akanuwe
Elise Rowan
Postdoctoral Research Associate
Lecturer in Paramedic Science
Postdoctoral Research Associate
Associate Members
ProfessorRoderick Orner
Visiting Professor
Professor Aly Rashid
Visiting Professor
Associate Professor
Associate Professor
Associate Professor
Visiting Research Fellow
Visiting Research Fellow
Visiting Research Fellow
Visiting Research Fellow
Visiting Research Fellow
Research Students
Viet-Hai Phung
Darren Fernandes
Betul Yalcin
Emadione Lustre Ntungwe
Despina Laparidou
Andi Seago
Connect Online:
School of Health and Social Care Research Groups 
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Our research aims to contribute to developing strategies which maximise the benefits of an ageing society as well as considering strategies to address the challenges.
Research in Mental Health, Health and Social Care
The primary focus of this research group is to provide expert resources to government policy strategists, health, social, and education economies to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit
The Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit (LinCTU) was setup in 2020 at the University of Lincoln by the Community & Health Research Unit to support clinical trials.


Apprenticeships | School of Health and Social Care | University of LincolnMeeting the Needs of Employers
The School of Health and Social Care works with employers to provide employees with the opportunity to study for a degree while gaining hands-on experience and a professional pathway for future development. Funded by the government and your employer, the School of Health and Social Care offers two apprenticeships which combine work-based learning and education, which gives employers the opportunity to select, train and develop their workforce according to an employer-defined standard.
Selina Adda-Dixon shortlisted for Nursing Associate Trainee of the Year at the Student Nursing Times Awards

Selina said: I would really recommend the training with LPFT and the University of Lincoln to anyone who is looking to progress in their careers in this field.


This programme aims to prepare graduates to work as qualified social workers in a varied complex and challenging profession with individuals, families, and communities across all fields of social work and social work settings.
Suitable for new and existing healthcare professionals, this two-year practice-based Foundation degree combines learning and development through academic study and practice in the workplace.
The programme is suitable for new and existing healthcare staff who are responsible for delivering care and who have the potential to take on greater challenges and responsibility as a Registered Nurse.
This programme offers registered practitioners a student-centred programme of study that aims to meet their personal and professional development needs as they progress within their role towards advanced expert practice.
Advanced Clinical Practice Apprenticeship 
This apprenticeship gives students the opportunity to work across boundaries, combining clinical skills with research, education, and leadership. 
Clinical Suites
The clinical suites in the Sarah Swift building are used by theSchool of Health and Social Care to simulate real hospital and home environments, and feature the latest in patient simulation technology.
Students have access to simulated male, female, and infant patients that feature realistic anatomy and clinical functionality, as well as CPR mannequins to help develop clinical and decision-making skills during scenarios and clinical practice. The replicated ward environment is of an NHS standard and features realistic patient bays, as well as clinical equipment and consumables to provide a realistic workspace.
The suites are located in the new Sarah Swift building and are available as learning environments for students on the Nursing, Social Work, Physiotherapy, Midwifery, Paramedic Science, and Occupational Therapy courses.
Work With Us
There has never been a better time for employers to take advantage of apprenticeships to increase productivity and performance by attracting and developing the very best talent and enabling them to nurture the talent within their business at every level.
Whether you want to help your employees get a foot on the career development ladder or you are aiming to fill a high level skills gap by attracting high-caliber new recruits or training existing employees, we can help.
Employers are encouraged to use the Government's Recruit an Apprentice tool at https://www.gov.uk/recruit-apprentice to post vacancies and manage applications for apprenticeships.

Contact Us
Enquiries
T:01522 882000


Paramedic Science Placements | Placements | University of LincolnWelcome
Welcome to the Paramedic Science Practice Placement section. Within this section you will find useful information and resources for both students and our practice partners of the University of Lincoln.
We have prepared detailed information packs for both placement providers and students about to go on placement. Please click on the relevant link below to download your information pack.
If you are interested in providing a placement within your organisation, please contact us by using the email address provided at the bottom of this page.

Contactthe Practice Placement Team:
For all general enquiries please emailparamedicspractice@lincoln.ac.uk


Nursing Placements | Placements | University of LincolnWelcome
Welcome to the NursingPractice Placement section. Within this section you will find useful information and resources for both students and our practice partners of the University of Lincoln. These resources are specific to all nursing programmes; BSc Nursing, MSc Nursing, Nursing Associates, and Nursing Apprenticeships.
We have prepared detailed information packs for both placement providers and students about to go on placement. Please click on the relevant link below to download your information pack.
If you are interested in providing a placement within your organisation, please contact us by using the email address provided at the bottom of this page.

Contact the Practice Placement Team:
For all general enquiries please emailnursingpractice@lincoln.ac.uk


Probhct | Research | University of LincolnProbation Healthcare Commissioning Toolkit
Improving the health of people in the criminal justice system
Probation Healthcare Commissioning Toolkit:A resource for commissioners and practitioners in health and criminal justice.
Many people in contact with probation will experience more than one health problem at any given time and often experience other negative social determinants of health such as unemployment and homelessness. Very little research has been done on this population and their voice is seldom heard by those commissioning healthcare or those providing oversight and scrutiny of healthcare services.
For more information please see below, or visit the Toolkit Website.
What are we doing?
Many people in contact with probation will experience more than one health problem at any given time and often experience other negative social determinants of health such as unemployment and homelessness. Very little research has been done on this population and their voice is seldom heard by those commissioning healthcare or those providing oversight and scrutiny of healthcare services.

Why is it important?
Despite the high level and complexity of health needs in this group, people in contact with probation face both system-level and personal-level barriers to accessing healthcare. Many people in contact with probation are not registered with a GP, and/or only access healthcare during crises (Revolving Doors Agency 2013). Sometimes services simply do not exist to meet their needs, and sometimes services are difficult to access due to things like their location, opening hours, restrictive referral criteria and poorly understood access routes. Moreover, the health needs of people in contact with probation and how best to structure service provision to make healthcare accessible to and appropriate for this group are not always considered by healthcare commissioners.

How are we different?
We hope that this toolkit will assist those working in health and criminal justice environments in England, and in particular commissioners to improve the way in which healthcare is provided for people in contact with probation.
Academic Staff
Dr Coral Sirdifield
Research Fellow, University of Lincoln
Dr Rebecca Marples
Research Assistant, University of Lincoln
ProfCharlie Brooker
Honorary Professor for Health and Justice, Royal Holloway, University of London
Prof David Denney
Professor of Social and Public Policy, Royal Holloway, University of London
Prof Niro Siriwardena
Professor of Primary & Pre-Hospital Health Care
Mr Dean Maxwell-Harrison
Service User Consultant
Download Toolkit as PDF


Download Summary as PDF




Midwifery Placements | Placements | University of LincolnWelcome
Welcome to the Midwifery Practice Placement section. Within this section you will find useful information and resources for both students and our practice partners of the University of Lincoln.
We have prepared detailed information packs for both placement providers and students about to go on placement. Please click on the relevant link below to download your information pack.
If you are interested in providing a placement within your organisation, please contact us by using the email address provided at the bottom of this page.

Contactthe Practice Placement Team:
For all general enquiries please emailmidwiferypractice@lincoln.ac.uk


LinCTU | Research | University of LincolnLincoln Clinical Trials Unit
Investigating Issues in Health and Social Care
The Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit (LinCTU) was setup in 2020 at the University of Lincoln by the Community & Health Research Unit to support clinical trials. LinCTU is located in the newly established University of Lincoln Medical Schooland engages directly with the Medical School, the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health(LIIRH), academic colleagues and the wider NHS community.
The international vision is to develop an identity which allows us to attract the type of trials and studies where we have particular strengths and expertise. The studies of particular interest to us are those investigating health and social care problems: in under-researched rural settings to address health inequalities. in communities of coastal populations. with complex interventions including both quantitative and qualitative elements. examining issues of inclusivity, diversity and de-colonisation.
If you have an idea, or wish to work with us, pleasevisit our dedicated website.
Staff
Director: Professor A. Niroshan Siriwardena
Deputy Director: Professor Graham R. Law
Senior Management Group
Sponsor Liason: Contact for sponsor
Operational Management Team: AN Siriwardena, GR Law, E Rowan, S Lewis
Information compliance: Abi Slater  Contact for information compliance
IT managers: Sophie Packer,Mark Rushton
Data managers: Dr Elise Rowan
Administrators: Susan Bowler
Trial managers: Dr Greg Whitley, Dr Julie Pattinson, Dr Asam Latif
Statisticians: Professor Graham Law, Dr Zahid Asghar, Dr Vanessa Botan
Process evaluation: Despina Laparidou
Qualitative Researchers: Viet-Hai Phung, Dr Julie Pattinson
Health economists: Dr Murray Smith, Dr Colin Ridyard
Systematic reviewers: Despina Laparidou, Dr David Nelson
School of Health and Social Care Research Groups 
Community and Health Research Unit
CaHRUsmissionis to increase peoples health and well-being by improving the quality, performance, and systems of care across the health, social, and third sector care services.
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Our research aims to contribute to developing strategies which maximise the benefits of an ageing society as well as considering strategies to address the challenges.
Research in Mental Health, Health and Social Care
The primary focus of this research group is to provide expert resources to government policy strategists, health, social, and education economies to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.


Integrated Professional Practice Modules | School of Health and Social Care | University of LincolnExplore ourShort Courses
These standalone modules offer graduates from awealthof disciplines within the wider health and social care community to choose a flexible pathway tailored to suit their personal and professional goals.
Our short courses place a firm focus on interprofessional learning, work-based and practice-focused development and academic growth.
Dependent on eligibility, the University of Lincoln also offers an MSc Integrated Professional Practice.
Available Short Courses
Assessment and Management of Minor Injuries
The aim of this module is to enable the experienced health care practitioner to develop proficiency in the skills of assessment, treatment, and management of minor injuries and apply this to their clinical context. It aims to provide the autonomous practitioner with the advanced knowledge base, communication skills, and safe clinical examination skills, to equip them to make confident autonomous, effective, and evidence-based patient care decisions.
The syllabus for this module will include the following:
Assessment
Part A: Direct observation of clinical skills in practice; verified and assessed by appropriately experienced and competent medical practitioners and/or healthcare professionals in the students own professional service area, through a competence based portfolio.
Part B: Observed Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCEs); students will be expected to respond appropriately in a series of mock clinical situations. You will be asked to systematically assess, manage and escalate your findings within the context of your own personal and professional scope of practice and using best evidence to support your clinical decision-making and rationale.
Fundamentals in Tissue Viability
This module is designed to support health and social care practitioners to consolidate and develop their knowledge, skills and understanding of wound prevention, management and care.
The module will explore the anatomy, physiology and classification of wounds; including the clinical aetiology of arterial and venous leg ulcers. Learning will take place through a series of core lectures and seminar activities, where students will be supported to use enquiry-based learning methods. The structure of seminars and workshops has been designed to enable the practitioners to draw upon their theoretical knowledge and apply this to their experiences in clinical practice.
Students will be encouraged and supported to undertake a holistic assessment of individual user needs, including consideration of the bio-psycho-social factors, comorbidities, pain management and individual life-style choices that influence and impact upon healing and overall quality of life.
The planning of this module and the assessment strategy have been designed in collaboration with users of health and social care services and will be assessed in a clinically relevant manner through the production of a justified and evidence-informed clinical management plan, in response to a given case study.

The syllabus for this module will typically include the following:

Students will be expected to independently develop, synthesise and apply their clinical skills and knowledge to the context of their own professional practice.
Professional Practice in Primary Care (GPN1)
Coming soon
Clinical Skills for General Practice Nursing (GPN2)
Coming soon
Infection Control in Clinical Practice
This module is designed to support health and social care practitioners to explore the proactive prevention, responsive investigation, and appropriate control management of infections within clinical practice.
The syllabus for this module will include the following:
Students will be expected to independently develop, reflect upon and apply their clinical skills and knowledge to the context of their own professional practice.
Comprehensive Approach to History Taking and Physical Assessment
The aim of this module is to enable the experienced healthcare practitioner to develop their physical assessment skills and apply this to their own clinical context. As the independent practitioner, you will be equipped with the knowledge base, communication skills and safe clinical examination skills to make confident, effective and evidence based patient care decisions. You will also be able to undertake an independent assessment to start planning appropriate care or referral for your patients. The module learning outcomes are contextualised within the current health agenda, and as such you will take into account the context of your clinical assessment, demonstrating awareness of the implications of your care planning and/or referral decisions.
The syllabus for this module will include the following:
The assessment for this module is in two parts, both parts need to be passed in order to successfully complete the module:
1. OSCE (Objective Structure Clinical Examination). You will be expected to respond in a series of mock clinical situations. You will be asked to systematically assess, manage and escalate your findings within the context of your own personal and professional development and using best evidence to support your clinical decision-making and rationale. A pass mark of 80% is required.
2. Clinical Assessment Portfolio (CAP). You will be required to complete a portfolio of evidence documenting progress against a series of competency standards, which will demonstrate the appropriate application of theory to practice. The portfolio will demonstrate the learning and progression achieved whilst on the module.
Paediatric Urgent Care
The aim of this course is to further develop healthcare practitioners skills and knowledge relating to the specific issues inherent in clinical decision-making, organisation and escalation when working with children and young people and their families. This module explores the fundamental and key aspects of assessing, managing and treating children and young people who present to a range of primary and acute healthcare settings.
Return to Practice
s nurses who are looking to return to work and registration with the NMC.Successful completion of the course will enable the learner to demonstrate achievement of the NMC Standards for Proficiency and programme outcomes for the relevant part of the register. This will deem you eligible to reregister with the NMC.", 'The module will enable qualified and experienced social workers to meet the requirements of Stage 1 of the Practice Educator Professional Standards for Social Work (Social Work Reform Board, 2010). The emphasis is on developing the knowledge, values and skills needed to support the development of professional capabilities of social work students and others, and on holistically assessing professional practice. Candidates will undertake the role of Practice Educator in Training, supervising a social work student on placement for the duration of the module. Candidates will be supported by a Mentor (a Stage 2 Practice Educator) identified by their agency, in addition to the support provided by University of Lincoln tutors. One observation of practice is required (normally a supervision session).
There is a minimum post qualification experience requirement of two years.
The module is made up of three blocks of study that are completed sequentially over the course of the social work student placement. Block One focuses on managing and developing opportunities for learning and assessment in practice, Block Two considers enabling learning and professional development and Block Three focuses on managing the assessment of learners in practice. There are five taught days.
The syllabus for this module will typically include the following:
The assessment for this module will be:
The assessment for this module will be:  A reflective and analytical commentary of 6000 words on practice education at Stage 1 (100%)  One direct observation of practice educator skills in practice verified and assessed by an appropriately qualified and experienced Stage 2 Practice Educator (Pass/refer)  Successful completion of practice curriculum (Pass/refer)
Practice Education 2 builds on Practice Education 1 and aims to enable qualified and experienced social workers to meet the requirements of Stage 2 of the Practice Educator Professional Standards for Social Work (BASW 2020).
This module is relevant for those who support, mentor and assess student social workers and qualified social workers engaging in formal and informal learning or development activities.
Candidates will explore how values, skills and knowledge gained through planning, teaching and assessing learning have become embedded within their practice. In doing this they will provide evidence of a range of methods used to evaluate their practice.
Candidates will take on the role of Practice Educator in Training for the duration of the module, supervising a social work student on placement or a qualified social worker engaged in formal continuing professional development (for example, the Assessed and Supported Year in Employment).

The module will typically include the following:

Assessment
The assessment for this module will be:
Interprofessional safeguarding across the life course- 1,400.00
This module aims to promote collaborative, interprofessional practice around safeguarding in health and social care settings
An introduction to public health- 700.00
This module aims to provide learners with an introduction to public health systems, policy and strategy.
Person-centred cancer care- 700.00
Cancer is an umbrella diagnosis for many diseases caused by cellular change and involving a variety of causative factors, affecting as many as 1 in 2 people at some point in their lives. This module explores how cancer affects people and their families from a range of perspectives, allowing health and care professionals to increase collaboration and integrated team working. This module is designed for health and care professionals who are working with people with a cancer diagnosis at any stage in their condition.

The module core content will include:

Additional content to include:
The assessment for this module is a poster presentation- you will design an evidence-informed poster on an area of cancer care relevant to your practice and present it to the cohort (15mins)
An interprofessional approach to diabetes care- 700.00
This module will enable students to develop the core knowledge necessary to apply an evidence-informed, holistic approach to individualised care for people at risk of or living with diabetes.
New directions in integrated health and social care- 700.00
Health and Social care is constantly changing due to new evidence and new policy decisions. This short course allows you to explore the political and theoretical landscape of how such decisions are made, looking at global, national and local decision making. Learning alongside colleagues from other professions, youll consider the progress towards integrating health and social care, what barriers there might be in doing this, and how interdisciplinary working might help progress towards this integration. This course is also a core module for the MSc Integrated Professional Practice award.

The content for this course is likely to include:
This course is delivered in a blended learning style with most activity taking place in online workshops, supported by learning materials you can access at a time to suit you. Key concepts will be introduced using introductory face to face days followed by online groups allowing you to interact and talk with other students. The course runs for 6 sessions over 6 weeks.

Assessment
The assessment for this course is a group presentation and an individual written summary of your contribution to the work (1500 words).
Evidencing ongoing professional development- 15 credit version700.00 / 30 credit version- 1,400.00
This module allows students to re-examine prior learning from individual study, short courses and non-accredited learning opportunities as well as conference proceedings, professional reading and occupational activity. The module is suitable for all working in health and care services, providing the opportunity to apply a deeper level of critical reflection and application of theoretical perspectives to practical or work-focused learning. Students will be able to further develop their academic reading and writing skills whilst exercising autonomy in their applications of the learning outcomes to their own personalised circumstances. The module offers students choice in assessment approaches to demonstrate achievement of the learning outcomes.

This module will cover:

This module will also typically include:

Assessment
The assessment for this module offers students a choice between EITHER a patchwork in the form of a collated portfolio OR a presentation, allowing students to select the medium in which they feel best able to express their ongoing development journey. This will form 60% of the summative assessment. All students are also required to submit a personal development plan as a written assignment, forming the remaining 40% of the summative assessment (1500 words).
Negotiated work-based learning - 15 credit version700.00
In this short course you choose the focus of your learning, giving you the opportunity to explore subjects that are truly relevant to your personal professional practice. Using the University of Lincoln Student as Producer ethos, you will negotiate a topic, produce a written learning or project plan and agree your own learning outcomes with the module leader, who will then use workshops, guided study and individual tutorial support to facilitate you meeting these.

The content in the workshops will typically include

Assessment
The assessment for this course is a live discussion-based assessment (viva) where you will discuss your learning with tutors from the School to demonstrate your understanding.
This course is a blended learning course with workshops over 4 weeks followed by individual support from your tutor and the assessment 4 weeks after the end of the workshops.
Negotiated work-based learning - 30 credit version- 1,400.00
In this short course you choose the focus of your learning, giving you the opportunity to explore subjects that are truly relevant to your personal professional practice. Using the University of Lincoln Student as Producer ethos, you will negotiate a topic, produce a written learning or project plan and agree your own learning outcomes with the module leader, who will then use workshops, guided study and individual tutorial support to facilitate you meeting these.

The content in the workshops will typically include:

Assessment
The assessment for this course is a live discussion-based assessment (viva) where you will discuss your learning with tutors from the School to demonstrate your understanding and a written report (1000 words)
This course is a blended learning course with workshops over 6 weeks followed by individual support from your tutor. The live assessment takes place 2 weeks after the end of the workshops with your report submitted in a further 2 weeks.
Integrated professional practice research methods700.00
The module will support students to deepen their understanding of qualitative and quantitative research approaches that can be used to address research questions in the health and social care sector. This will build understanding and appraisal of research in order to develop practice from being a consumer of evidence towards being a creator of knowledge.
This module will cover
This module will also typically cover recording the research process coproduction, patient and public involvement with research clinical and research governance.
This module will be delivered as a remote learning module with both synchronous and asynchronous teaching to support students who will be approaching the research methods with varying levels of pre-existing knowledge. The philosophical stances surrounding contemporary health and social care research will be broadly introduced, before focussing on the knowledge and skills necessary to enable practitioners to design research that is directly relevant to the contemporary workplace.

Assessment
Formative-students will be formatively assessed as they work up their literature search strategy, allowing for scaffolding of fundamental research skills, Summative- a written piece of work in 2 parts- 1)a reflective discussion of qualitative, quantative and alternate methodologies and what influenced their choice in selection (1000 words) and 2)a research proposal plan (1000 words) which will encourage a deeper understanding of how new studies are developed, whilst providing an opportunity for students who intend to progress to a dissertation to begin the development of their project.
Proactive management of long-term conditions- 1,400.00
This module provides the practitioner with the knowledge and skills required to proactively support the holistic care and treatment of individuals with long term health and social care needs, within their field of professional practice. The module will focus on enabling individuals to take greater control of their care and offering opportunities for better health and wellbeing, through personalised care planning, increased prevention strategies and supported self-care (NHS, 2014). Students will be expected to independently synthesise and apply their clinical skills and knowledge to the context of their own professional practice.

The syllabus for this module will typically include the following:
Musculoskeletal Assessment, Diagnosis and Management for First Contact Practice- 1400
Musculoskeletal complaints form a large body of presentations in healthcare. This module will build on previous MSK related learning and experience to an advanced level. It will cover the skills required for advanced musculoskeletal practice, aligned to the knowledge skills and attributes within the FCP MSK roadmap. Existing knowledge and skills around assessment, diagnosis and management of musculoskeletal patients will be built upon and developed. Students will develop critical thinking and patient centred care, demonstrating skills in shared decision making. Indications and justification for the use of further investigations, including MRI, CT, diagnostic ultrasound, x-ray and blood tests, will be critically reviewed with focus on when to refer patients appropriately and how to respond to the results. Management of patients with both chronic and acute conditions will be explored, including persistent pain and a knowledge of common orthopaedic surgery and indications.

This module will cover:
Assessment

Management
Formative assessment will include practice OSCE attempts Summative assessment is in 2 parts- 1. 3,000 word care study demonstrating advanced musculoskeletal assessment, diagnosis and management. More than one case can be included to demonstrate difference in approach. Critically review the assessment, diagnostic and management decisions in respect to the current evidence, shared decision making and collaborative working. 2. In class test (OSCE Assessment).
Injection Therapy for Musculoskeletal Practice- 850
The module introduces the theory and practice of musculoskeletal injection therapy, including the safety, ethical and legal aspects of practice in the context of the evidence base. This module will suit those healthcare professionals aiming to move into advanced practice roles related to MSK or rheumatology practice. It is suitable for healthcare professionals such as HCPC registered physiotherapists, podiatrists, occupational therapists, and registered GPs, doctors, and nurses who are experienced in orthopaedics, rheumatology, or musculoskeletal practice.

Entry Requirements for this module:

This module will cover:
Advanced musculoskeletal practice portfolio- 700
This course offers registered Health Professionals the opportunity to build on previous MSK related learning and experience to an advanced level.

This course covers the following areas:

Entry Criteria
Must have current professional registration (e.g. HCPC). Minimum 3 years post graduate experience and a minimum 3 years in musculoskeletal, or other relevant practice. (e.g. medical doctors, physiotherapists, podiatrists, occupational therapists). Need to be working in advanced practice, or working towards advanced practice or FCP. Relevant MSc level education in the MSK specialism, or relevant clinical experience in the MSK specialism. A practice supervisor will be required. For alignment with the FCP MSK Roadmap (Health Education England, 2021), in primary care this needs to be either a GP educational supervisor, or HEE recognised roadmap supervisor. In secondary care this needs to be at medical consultant or a suitably qualified MSK professional. Completion of MSK Primary Care HEE E-Learning for health modules.

Assessment
Formative assessment will be provided by using peer assessed reflective writing opportunities to allow students to further develop not only academic writing but also skills in giving and receiving feedback.

Summative assessment is in 2 parts:
1. A portfolio of evidence that comprises a log of learning opportunities that have been undertaken during the program. These should include a range of reflective case studies, work-based assessments, critical appraisals, clinical placements, contributions to quality improvement / service development and audit.
2. A 2,000-word reflective commentary on the portfolio and implementation of learning into practice.
Entry Requirements
Each module may require a different set of entry requirements. To find out more, please contact the Programme Leader Helen Chilvers at hchilvers@lincoln.ac.ukor alternatively, emailcpd@lincoln.ac.ukand a member of our team will get back to you.


Postgraduate Programmes | School of Health and Social Care | University of Lincoln


BSc Nursing Apprenticeship  | Apprenticeships | University of LincolnIntroduction to the Apprenticeship
Nurses perform a vital role in 21st Century healthcare, in both primary and secondary care settings, restoring and promoting health, supporting patients and their families, and profiling healthcare needs of communities.
The University of Lincoln recognises the challenges facing current and future healthcare and nursing practice, offering three distinct nursing programmes specialising in adult, child, and mental health.
Our professionally-accredited programmes enable students to become registered nurses with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC). The programmes aim to prepare students to become fit for practice in accordance with the NMCs Standards for Pre-registration Nursing Education and to be eligible to register as a qualified nurse. Students are encouraged to become confident, critically analytical advocates of excellence in nursing practice within their respective specialisms.
The School of Health and Social Care works with employers to provide employees with the opportunity to study for an undergraduate BSc (Hons) Nursing degree through an apprenticeship route, funded by the Government and your employer.
Benefits to Employers
The programme is suitable for new and existing healthcare staff who are responsible for delivering care and who have the potential to take on greater challenges and responsibility as a Registered Nurse.
The programme aims to enable employers to:
How You Study
3 yearprogramme(Full time)
Our nursing courses are offered over three academic years, consisting of 45 weeks of study per year. They utilise a range of teaching and learning styles. Students spend half of their time studying at the University and the other half gaining practical experience in nursing.
The theoretical and clinical elements of the course are centred on the NHS values of working together for patients; respect and dignity; commitment to quality care; compassion; improving lives; and everyone counts.
As a full time nursing apprenticeship student you will remain 100% supernumerary during both the theoretical and practical parts of the programme. You will remain employed by your organisation for the period of the programme and spend around 25% of the programme working within your organisation on clinical placement as a Nursing Apprenticeship Student. The remaining time will be spent in completing theory at University or gaining exposure to the four fields of nursing on clinical placement within our placements allocation in and around Lincolnshire.
First-year modules aim to provide the core foundation skills for adult, child, or mental health nursing, with a focus on the acquisition of knowledge and understanding of anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, and social sciences. This is built upon in the second year, where students can develop professional skills and apply ethical principles to rational decision-making.
During the final year of the degree, students are able to explore the theory behind leading and managing complex nursing care, and consider the theory and practice of innovative and transformational change in preparation for their final project.
18 monthprogramme (Full time)
If you are already a registered nursing associate and would like to complete a conversion to become a registered nurse (adult, mental health or child), our 18 month pathway provides this option.
3 Year Programme
Year One:
Fundamental nursing care (Core)
Nursing and the interprofessional team (Core)
Person-centred, holistic adult nursing care (Core)
Personal Development and Resilience (Core)

Year Two:
Assessing needs, planning and coordinating care (Core)
Healthcare Sciences (Core)
Promoting health and preventing ill health (Core)
Providing and evaluating care (Core)

Year Three:
Being an accountable professional (nursing L6) (Core)
Innovation to transformation in nursing practice (Core)
Leadership and practice education (nursing) (Core)
Leading and managing complex adult care (Core)

18 Month Pathway
Year One:
Person-centred, holistic adult nursing care (Core)
Assessing needs, planning and coordinating care (Core)

Year Two:
Being an accountable professional (nursing L6) (Core)
Innovation to transformation in nursing practice (Core)
Leadership and practice education (nursing) (Core)
Leading and managing complex adult care (Core)

3 Year Programme
Year One:
Fundamental nursing care (Core)
Holistic person-centred childrens nursing care (Core)
Nursing and the interprofessional team (Core)
Personal Development and Resilience (Core)

Year Two:
Assessing needs, planning and coordinating care (Core)
Healthcare Sciences (Core)
Promoting health and preventing ill health (Core)
Providing and evaluating care (Core)

Year Three:
Being an accountable professional (nursing L6) (Core)
Innovation to transformation in nursing practice (Core)
Leadership and practice education (nursing) (Core)
Leading and managing complex childrens care (Core)

18 Month Pathway
Year One:
Holistic person-centred childrens nursing care (Core)
Assessing needs, planning and coordinating care (Core)

Year Two:
Being an accountable professional (nursing L6) (Core)
Innovation to transformation in nursing practice (Core)
Leadership and practice education (nursing) (Core)
Leading and managing complex childrens care (Core)

3 Year Programme
Year One:
Fundamental nursing care (Core)
Holistic person-centred mental health nursing care (Core)
Nursing and the interprofessional team (Core)
Personal Development and Resilience (Core)

Year Two:
Assessing needs, planning and coordinating care (Core)
Healthcare Sciences (Core)
Promoting health and preventing ill health (Core)
Providing and evaluating care (Core)

Year Three:
Being an accountable professional (nursing L6) (Core)
Innovation to Transformation in Nursing Practice (Core)
Leadership and practice education (nursing) (Core)
Leading and managing complex mental health care (Core)


18 Month Pathway
Year One:
Holistic person-centred mental health nursing care (Core)
Assessing needs, planning and coordinating care (Core)

Year Two:
Being an accountable professional (nursing L6) (Core)
Innovation to Transformation in Nursing Practice (Core)
Leadership and practice education (nursing) (Core)
Leading and managing complex mental health care (Core)


Placements
Work placements are designed to prepare students to meet the challenges of a rapidly changing clinical environment, whether this be a hospital, GP surgery or community healthcare setting.
The programme operates a home/away model. You will complete two placement blocks per year. One placement per year will be with your employer and the secondwill be allocated by the University to gain the four fields exposure as per NMC requirements.
Programme Leader
These programmes are led by Caroline Dobson, Senior Lecturer.
Support
Students are supported in their learning and development by a range of people with expertise in healthcare, including a teaching team who haveextensive experience as academics and as healthcare clinicians. A range of other support includes a dedicated placement team, to support placements; service users, carers and other professionals to share their experiences and expertise; a dedicated Subject Librarian; Student Support and Wellbeing Service, for access to services and information. In addition, students are supported by:
Fees and Funding
Employees:
If you wish to undertake either of the programmes, you will need an employer who can support your application as the course can be funded through government co-funding or the apprenticeship levy.
Employers:
Entry Requirements


Accreditations and Memberships
This course is accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC), enabling students to register as a qualified nurse upon graduation. Students are required to complete competencies for nursing in practice as part of the NMC Future Nursing: Standards framework for Nursing and Midwifery (2018).

18 Month Pathway - Apply Online
If you are interested in applying for the 18 month top-up route, you can apply using the relevant links below.
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Child)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health)
Further Enquiries
If you would like to know more please contact your employer or email your queries to us at:nurseapprenticeship@lincoln.ac.uk


MH2aSC | Research | University of LincolnAccelerating Research
MH2aSC has evolved to encompass a broader range of research activity that involves social care and adult health, particularly cancer care through a partnership with Macmillan. The primary focus of this research group is to provide expert resources to government policy strategists, health, social, and education economies to create and drive innovation in health and social care settings.
Key themes of our research include mental health, health and social care integration, values-based practice, workforce development, and service innovation and improvement.
Current project areas:- Cancer care: we work closely with Macmillan Cancer Support and the local health economy to investigate the care of cancer patients following completion of their treatment- Workforce development: MH2aSC are involved in the development of new clinical academic careers of nurses, midwives and allied health professionals for the regional health economy- Conscientious objection: our group is exploring the impact of the emotional labour of health and social care and its relationship to professional and personal conscienceThroughout the course of our research, we have developed a network of international and national collaborators and offer PhD supervision, we also support the development of clinical academics and other early career researchers (ECRs).
Academic Staff
Dr Ros Kane
Associate Professor
DrIan McGonagle
Associate Professor
Dr Maria Joyce
Senior Lecturer
Dr David Nelson
Research Fellow
Emma Sayers
Research Assistant
Heidi Green
Research Assistant (Health & Social Care)
Dr Sam Cooke
Research Associate
Rachel Mason
Senior Lecturer in Health and Social Care
Dr Stephanie Armstrong
Senior Lecturer in Health Quality Improvement/ Programme Leader
Dr Jim Rogers
Senior Lecturer / Programme Leader
Dr Joseph Akanuwe
Post-Doctoral Research Associate in Primary Care & Public Health Research
Dr Hannah Henderson
Associate Professor
Prof Jacqui Allen-Collinson
Professor Emerita in Sociology and Physical Cultures
Prof Kate Grafton
Head of the School of Health and Social Care
Carol Duff
Senior Lecturer and Consultant Therapist
Janice Wisenam
Senior Lecturer in Adult Nursing
Dr Iwona Zielinska
Visiting Research Fellow and Marie Curie International Fellow
Connect Online:
School of Health and Social Care Research Groups 
Community and Health Research Unit
CaHRUsmissionis to increase peoples health and well-being by improving the quality, performance, and systems of care across the health, social, and third sector care services.
Healthy Ageing Research Group
Our research aims to contribute to developing strategies which maximise the benefits of an ageing society as well as considering strategies to address the challenges.
Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit
The Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit (LinCTU) was setup in 2020 at the University of Lincoln by the Community & Health Research Unit to support clinical trials.


FAQs | School of Health and Social Care | University of LincolnFrequently Asked Questions
Clinical Suites
The clinical suites in the Sarah Swift building are used by theSchool of Health and Social Care to simulate real hospital and home environments, and feature the latest in patient simulation technology.
Students have access to simulated male, female, and infant patients that feature realistic anatomy and clinical functionality, as well as CPR mannequins to help develop clinical and decision-making skills during scenarios and clinical practice. The replicated ward environment is of an NHS standard and features realistic patient bays, as well as clinical equipment and consumables to provide a realistic workspace.
The suites are located in the new Sarah Swift building and are available as learning environments for students on the Nursing, Social Work, Physiotherapy, Midwifery, Paramedic Science, and Occupational Therapy courses.


School of Health and Social Care | College of Health and Science | University of LincolnSchool of Health and Social Care
Welcome
The School of Health and Social Care has established a regional, national, and international reputation for its teaching, its research and its broad educational opportunities. We are home to a variety of professionally accredited courses in Nursing and Social Work as well as our vocationally-oriented Health and Social Care degree. Furthermore we undertake a broad range of high quality research projects through our thriving Community and Health Research Unit (CAHRU).
The (LIIRH) undertakesresearch in partnership with service users, health practitioners and organisations, industry and policy makers.
Many of our staff members keep their practice uptodate and relevant by working in various capacities with service delivery agencies and by engaging in practice research. This is complemented by the number of authors in the School, whose books have been adopted as core texts at many universities in the UK.
We have close ties with Health Trusts, Local Authorities and voluntary and private organisations across the region and we have established academic partnerships with Universities in Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Portugal, France, Poland and Slovenia through ourErasmusandErasmus Mundusprogrammes and various Health collaborations.
The School Mission
u200c
The School of Health and Social Care is working towards becoming a leader in the field of vocational, research informed and research engaged programmes, created and delivered by a collaborative academic and practice community utilising innovative learning and teaching approaches.
In order to achieve that aim, our commitment is that every member of the academic team teaches, teaches well and continually aims to teach better. Furthermore, every member of the academic team is engaged in research, scholarship, enterprise and community engagement, and continually aims to enhance their professional contribution.
We look forward to working with you towards achieving and realising your goals, whether you are a former, current or future student, an employer, a partner practice agency, a partner in research and development, or a member of the public.
If you are interested in finding out more about our School please come to one of our Open Days and meet some of the staff and students, who can tell you first hand about the special learning experience in the School.
I look forward to welcoming you to the School.
Kate Grafton Head of School of Health & Social Care 
Help To Improve the Lives of Others
Explore our range of nursing programmes which provide options to students who want to make a difference to the lives of others.
Find out More
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degree courses available in the School of Health and Social Care.
Postgraduate
Postgraduate taught and research programmes available in the School of Health and Social Care.
Health and Wellbeing Hub
Post registration programmes and continuing professional development for qualified practitioners working across the health and social care sector.
Practice Placements
Find out more about practice placements for Health and Social Care programmes
Apprenticeships
Apprenticeship degree courses available in the School of Health and Social Care.
School Staff
Staff within the School of Health and Social Care
Research
Research within the School of Health and Social Care
Participation
Shaping the future of health and social care... together
Pharmacy
You may also be interested in one of our Pharmacy programmes
Connect with Us
Contact us:
School of Health and Social Care, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS, UK
Telephone:+44 (0)1522 882000 | Email:enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Advanced Clinical Practice Apprenticeship | Apprenticeships | University of LincolnAdvanced Clinical Practice (Degree Apprenticeship)
Introduction
Advanced Clinical Practice is a multi-professional level of practice carried out by experienced clinicians who independently manage the clinical care process from start to finish in partnership with individuals, families, and carers. Working across traditional health and social care boundaries, they combine expert clinical skills with research, education, and leadership, and enable innovative solutions to enhance peoples experience and improve outcomes. Across the course, apprentices will be required to demonstrate core capabilities and area specific clinical competence.
The University of Lincoln recognises the challenges facing current and future healthcare and hasdesigned this programme in partnership with employers to prepare the workforce for working in primary and secondary care and integrated systems.
This programme will suit registered clinicians currently employed in health or social care and third sector organisations working in the healthcare space.
Key Features

Designed for registered clinicians 

Part time

Opportunities to build a portfolio

Blend of classroom and work based learning
How You Study
Our Advanced Clinical Practice degree apprenticeship is delivered over three academic years on a part time basis. You willlearn in the workplace for 80 per cent ofyour time, and attend university one day a week.
On-campus opportunities for learning will aim to promote skills development and networking, with online learning focusing on contentto expand clinical knowledge and theoretical understanding. The programme is underpinned by a continuing focus on clinical capability and research into practice to ensure a sound evidence base.
Modules are mostly 15 or 30 credit blocks, with each credit representing ten learning hours. You willstudy for 60 credits per academic year.At 160 credits apprentices reach the Gateway point and subject to satisfactory progress will enter the End Point Assessment to conclude their studies.
First year modules, which include Advanced Assessment Skills and Advanced Clinical Reasoning, build and consolidate the skills for autonomous practice and managing risk and complexity.
Second year modules such as Independent/Supplementary Prescribing further the knowledge from your first year. Learning then shifts towards the pillars of education in the module Principles of Teaching and Learning in Health and Care Professions. You can also gain an understanding of research methods through a dedicated module on the topic.
There are opportunities to further develop your knowledge around research skills through Research in Practice modules in your third year. You can also explore professional skills in the Consolidating Leadership module.
The programme is underpinned by a Capabilities in Practice portfolio for each year of study.
Accreditation
This degree apprenticeship is accredited with the NHS England Centre for Advancing Practice enabling successful apprentices to be eligible for the Advanced Practice Digital Badge credential demonstrating capability mapped to the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education standard ST0564 (2018) and the Multi-professional Standard for Advanced Clinical Practice in England (2017). 
Entry Requirements
You must be a registered healthcare professional with current First Level registration with the Nursing & Midwifery Council (NMC), Health Care Professionals Council (HCPC), or General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC).
You must also have at least 36 months clinical experience post-qualification and no current sanctions on your practice imposed by your registering body.
You should also hold a First or Second-class Honours Degree in a related subject.
How to Apply
To apply to this course please contactcpd@lincoln.ac.uk so that necessary employer checks can be carried out.
Apprenticeship Eligibility
You musthave the right of abode and right to work in the UK to qualify for funding
Evidence of GCSE Mathematics and English Language (grade A*-C / 9-4), or equivalent, must be provided prior to application.
A list of acceptable equivalent qualifications is available from the Apprenticeship level 2 requirementswebsite, as well as howto get replacement certificates.It will not be possible for applicants to proceed with their application unless they are able to provide evidence of achievement or proof that they have applied for replacement certificates.
Fees and Funding
Apprenticeship places require an employer who will support your applicationas the course can be funded through government co-funding or the apprenticeship levy.
Level 7 duration 3 years MSc Advanced Clinical Practice (Degree Apprenticeship) 12000 per annum.
Information for Employers
This degree apprenticeship represents a clinically rewarding career option for your experienced registered clinicians, and enables you to support their development and retention. Having advanced clinical practice led teams can provide system resilience and help you to deliver high quality, safe patient care.
Explore Information For Employers
Contact Us
Enquiries:01522 886644
Email:acpapprenticeships@lincoln.ac.uk.


School Staff | School of Health and Social Care | University of LincolnSchool of Health and Social Care Staff


LIIRH | Research | University of LincolnRural and Coastal Health in a Changing World
shine a light' on the unacceptable place-based health inequities across the rural-urban divide and to find innovative ways of reducing or ideally eliminating that inequality.", 'The institute brings together world-leading specialists, conducting research across a range of rural health related concerns, ranging from oral health, cancer care, infectious disease epidemiology, HIV, mental health through to sustainable remote health care delivery solutions, place-based community-engaged methods, meta-governance approaches, and m-health technological innovation.
LIIRH is supported by generous grants from theWolfson Foundation, and theGreater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership
Our research benefits from strong links and cross-disciplinary working with members ofCAHRU, theSchool of Psychology, theSchool of Health and Social Care, the Department of Geography, particularly DIRE, and theSchool of Computer Science. Nationally, the institute has strong links to researchers atUniversity College Londonand is a key partner of theNational Centre for Rural Health and Care.
Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health Research (LIRCH)
s E3 fund, the LIIRH will be scaled up to become the Lincoln Institute for Rural and Coastal Health Research. The LIRCH will be the country's first integrated and multi-disciplinary research institute dedicated to bringing together rural and coastal health and wellbeing research to help tackle the place-based inequalities experienced in these communities. By bringing together various disciplines, the LIRCH will create a multi-faceted approach to both rural and coastal health, delivering research and solutions with the people and communities affected.", '13th EURIPA Forum 
20th-22nd June 2024 - Theme: Tackling Health Inequalities in Rural and Remote Communities
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future", 'View our Publications
Our Purpose is to improve the health and wellbeing of rural, remote, and coastal populations. We have a commitment to include communities and people in research and knowledge exchange that is regionally relevant and addresses national and global challenges.Our Visionis to be the preeminent rural and coastal health research institute worldwide.Our Mission  is to conduct world-class research that seeks to address the most challenging health issues facing rural and coastal communities locally, nationally, and internationally.
Our Strategic Goals are to conduct collaborative and innovative research across regional, national, and international contexts to:
 Address knowledge and data gaps relating to health demographics, epidemiology, and gaps in rural health and care systems. Develop opportunities for influence of policy, knowledge exchange, community engagement and academic development including public health, clinical training, and sustainable development of healthcare professionals within remote and rural populations. Design, build and evaluate innovative and sustainable rural/coastal models of care.
 Develop new high-quality data frameworks and tools to improve planning approaches and provide more appropriate outcome and impact indicators for rural and coastal population health.
 Translate our context-specific knowledge of rural population health realities into actionable high fidelity healthcare solutions applicable to real world contexts. Develop innovative approaches to effective inclusion and engagement of rural and coastal citizens in health and care research and health system design. Create and support evaluation and post-graduate teaching expertise in rural and coastal health and care. Provide strategic and practical leadership and support for developing public health capacity across the college, university, and region.
LIIRH Institute Members
A list of members of the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health.
LIIRH Research Highlights
LIIRH Postgraduate Research
Discover more about the work taking place in our thriving postgraduate research community.
LIIRH Seminars
View recordings of seminars from the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health team
LIIRH Partnerships
Institutions and organisations working with the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
LIIRH Affiliates
Affiliated members of the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health team
Our Newsletters:
Spring 2022 | Autumn 2022


Publications | LIIRH | University of LincolnLatest Publications
2023 
Nanyonjo, Agnes, Nelson, David, Sayers, Emma, Lall, Priya, Vernon-Wilson, Elizabeth, Tetui, Moses, Grindrod, Kelly, Kane, Ros, Gussy, Mark and Siriwardena, Niro (2023) Community efforts to promote vaccine uptake in a rural setting: a qualitative interview study. Health Promotion International, 38 (4). ISSN 0957-4824
Mee, Paul, Gussy, Mark, Huntley, Phil, Kenny, Amanda, Jarratt, Theo, Kenward, Nigel, Ward, Derek and Vaughan, Aiden (2023) Digital Exclusion as a barrier to accessing healthcare: A summary composite indicator and online tool to explore and quantify local differences in levels of exclusion. Pre-print.
Nelson, David, Inghels, Maxime, Kenny, Amanda, Skinner, Steve, McCranor, Tracy, Wyatt, Stephen, Phull, Jaspreet, Nanyonjo, Agnes, Yusuff, Ojali and Gussy, Mark (2023) Mental health professionals and telehealth in a rural setting: a cross sectional survey. BMC Health Services Research, 23 . p. 200. ISSN 1472-6963
Nelson, David, Mcgonagle, Ian, Jackson, Christine, Tsuro, Trish, Scott, Emily, Gussy, Mark and Kane, Ros (2023) Health-Promoting Behaviours following Primary Treatment for Cancer: A RuralUrban Comparison from a Cross-Sectional Study. Current Oncology, 30 (2). pp. 1585-1597. ISSN 1718-7729
Moore, Harriet, Siriwardena, Niro and Gussy, Mark (2023) Mental health emergencies attended by ambulances in the United Kingdom and the implications for health service delivery: A cross-sectional study. Journal of health services research and policy . ISSN 1758-1060
Inghels, Maxime, Mee, Paul, Diallo, Oumou Hawa, Cisse, Mohamed, Nelson, David, Tanser, Frank, Asghar, Zahid, Koita, Youssouf, Laborde-Balen, Gabriele and Breton, Guillaume (2023) Improving early infant diagnosis for HIV-exposed infants using unmanned aerial vehicles versus motorcycles for blood sample in Conakry, Guinea: a comparative cost-effectiveness analysis. BMJ Global Health . ISSN 2059-7908
Richings, Lauren, Nelson, David, Goosey-Tolfrey, Victoria, Donnellan, Clare and Booth, Vicky (2023)Effectiveness of the evidence-based scientific exercise guidelines in increasing cardiorespiratory fitness, cardiometabolic health and muscle strength in acute spinal cord injury rehabilitation: a systematic review. Archives of Rehabilitation Research and Clinical Translation, 5 (3). ISSN 2590-1095
El Nsouli, Dayana, Nelson, David, Nsouli, Latifa, Curtis, Ffion, Ahmed, Syed Imran, Mcgonagle, Ian, Kane, Ros and Ahmadi, Keivan (2023) The Application of Kirkpatricks Evaluation Model in the Assessment of Interprofessional Simulation Activities Involving Pharmacy Students: A Systematic Review. American Journal of Pharmaceutical Education, 87 (8). p. 100003. ISSN 0002-9459
Vernon-Wilson, Elizabeth, Tetui, Moses, Nanyonjo, Agnes, Adil, Maisha, Bala, Arthi, Nelson, David, Sayers, Emma, Waite, Nancy and Grindrod, Kelly (2023) Unintended consequences of communicating rapid COVID-19 vaccine policy changes a qualitative study of health policy communication in Ontario, Canada. BMC Public Health, 23 . p. 932. ISSN 1471-2458
Setchell, Bradley, Marafu, Takawira, Nelson, David and Manning, Joseph (2023) Effectiveness of preventative care strategies for reducing pressure injuries (PIs) in children aged 0-18 admitted to intensive care: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Journal of Tissue Viability, 32 (2). pp. 228-241. ISSN 0965-206X
Whitley, Gregory, Wijegoonewardene, Nimali, Nelson, David, Curtis, Ffion, Ortega, Marishona and Siriwardena, Niro (2023) Patient, family member, and ambulance staff experiences of prehospital acute pain management in adults: A systematic review and meta-synthesis. Journal of the American College of Emergency Physicians Open, 4 (2). ISSN 2688-1152
Nelson, David, Inghels, Maxime, Kenny, Amanda, Skinner, Steve, McCranor, Tracy, Wyatt, Stephen, Phull, Jaspreet, Nanyonjo, Agnes, Yusuff, Ojali and Gussy, Mark (2023) Mental health professionals and telehealth in a rural setting: a cross sectional survey. BMC Health Services Research, 23 . p. 200. ISSN 1472-6963
Mason, Libuse, Marufu, Takawira C., Warren, Inga, Nelson, David, Cooke, Samuel, Laparidou, Despina and Manning, Joseph C. (2023) Interventions for supporting parents of infants requiring neonatal interhospital transport: A systematic review. Nursing in Critical Care . ISSN 1362-1017
2022 
Nelson, David, Cooke, Samuel, Mcleod, Ben, Nanyonjo, Agnes, Kane, Ros and Gussy, Mark (2022) A Rapid Systematic Review on the Experiences of Cancer Survivors Residing in Rural Areas during the COVID-19 Pandemic. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 19 (24). ISSN 1660-4601
Cooke, Samuel, Nelson, David, Green, Heidi, McPeake, Kathie, Gussy, Mark and Kane, Ros (2022) Rapid systematic review on developing web-based interventions to support people affected by cancer.BMJ Open, 12 (9). e062026. ISSN electronic ISSN
Nelson, David, Mcgonagle, Ian, Jackson, Christine, Gussy, Mark and Kane, Ros (2022) A rural-urban comparison of self-management in people living with cancer following primary treatment: A mixed methods study. Psycho-Oncology . ISSN 1057-9249
Mee, Paul, Alexander, Neal, Mayaud, Philippe, Gonz'lez, Sam and Santos, Parag, Kris V., Pereira, Rafael H.M., Prete, Carlos A., Sabino, Ester C., Faria, Nuno R. and Brady, Oliver J. (2022) Tracking the emergence of disparities in the subnational spread of COVID-19 in Brazil using an online application for real-time data visualisation: A longitudinal analysis. The Lancet Regional Health. Americas, 5 . p. 100119. ISSN 2667-193X
Graham, Florence, Kane, Ros, Gussy, Mark and Nelson, David (2022) Recovery of Health and Wellbeing in Rural Cancer Survivors Following Primary Treatment: Analysis of UK Qualitative Interview Data. Nursing Reports, 12 (3). pp. 482-497. ISSN 2039-4403
Moore, Harriet, Hill, Bartholomew, Tanser, Frank, Gussy, Mark, Siriwardena, Niro, Cutts, Morgan and Spaight, Robert (2022) Characterizing Unusual Spatial Clusters of Male Mental Health Emergencies Occurring During the First National COVID-19 Lockdown in the East Midlands Region, UK: A Geospatial Analysis of Ambulance 999 Data. American Journal of Men's Health, 16 (3). ISSN 1557-9883
Moore, Harriet, Hill, Bartholomew, Siriwardena, Niro, Thomas, Chris, Gussy, Mark, Spaight, Robert, Law, Graham and Tanser, Frank (2022) An exploration of factors characterising unusual spatial clusters of COVID-19 cases in the East Midlands region, UK: A geospatial analysis of ambulance 999 data.Landscapes and Urban Planning, 219 . p. 104299. ISSN 0169-2046
Moore, Harriet Elizabeth, Siriwardena, Aloysius Niroshan, Gussy, Mark, Hill, Bartholomew, Tanser, Frank and Spaight, Robert (2022) Exploring the Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Male Mental Health Emergencies Attended by Ambulances During the First National Lockdown in the East Midlands of the United Kingdom. American Journal of Men's Health . ISSN 1557-9883
Nelson, David, Lowe, Simon, Barr, Kim, Blackwell, Joanna and Gussy, Mark (2022) Primary care staff at the Deep end: Experiences from Lincolnshires East Coast. British Journal of General Practice (BJGP) - Life .
Inghels, Maxime, Kane, Ros, Lall, Priya, Nelson, David, Nanyonjo, Agnes, Asghar, Zahid, Ward, Derek, McCranor, Tracy, Kavanagh, Tony, Hogue, Todd, Phull, Jaspreet and Tanser, Frank (2022) Ethnicity and risk for SARS-CoV-2 infection among the healthcare workforce: Results of a retrospective cohort study in rural United Kingdom. International Journal of Infectious Diseases, 122 . pp. 115-122. ISSN 1201-9712
Inghels, Maxime, Kim, Hae-Young, Tanser, Frank, Hettema, Anita, McMahon, Shannon A., Oldenburg, Catherine E., Matse, Sindy, Kohler, Stefan, Geldsetzer, Pascal and Brnighausen, Till (2022) PrEP uptake and delivery setting preferences among clients visiting six healthcare facilities in Eswatini. AIDS and Behavior . ISSN 1090-7165
Nelson, David, Mcgonagle, Ian, Jackson, Christine and Kane, Ros (2022) An Exploration of RuralUrban Residence on Self-Reported Health Status with UK Cancer Survivors Following Treatment: A Brief Report. Nursing Reports, 12 (3). pp. 574-583. ISSN 2039-4403
Ashe, Louise, Nelson, David, Kontou, Eirini, Lindau, Aneesa, McGonagle, Ian and Kane, Ros (2022) A systematic review of practitioner enquiry into adverse childhood experiences in primary care.Journal of Health Visiting, 10 (3). ISSN 2050-8719
2021
Moore, Harriet, Siriwardena, Niro, Gussy, Mark, Tanser, Frank, Hill, Bartholomew and Spaight, Robert (2021) Mental health emergencies and COVID-19: the impact of lockdown in the East Midlands of the UK. BJPsych Open, 7 (4). e139. ISSN 2056-4724
Inghels, Maxime, Kouassi, Arsne Kra, Niangoran, Serge, Bekelynck, Anne, Carillon, Sverine, Sika, Lazare, Kon, Mariatou, Danel, Christine, Desgres du Lo, Annabel and Larmarange, Joseph (2021) Telephone peer recruitment and interviewing during a respondent-driven sampling (RDS) survey: feasibility and field experience from the first phone-based RDS survey among men who have sex with men in Cte dIvoire. BMC Medical Research Methodology, 21 (1). p. 25. ISSN 1471-2288
Inghels, Maxime, Kouassi, Arsne Kra, Niangoran, Serge, Bekelynck, Anne, Carillon, Sverine, Sika, Lazare, Danel, Christine, Kone, Mariatou, Desgrees du Lou, Annabel and Larmarange, Joseph (2020) Practices and Obstacles to Provider-Initiated HIV Testing and Counseling (PITC) Among Healthcare Providers in Cte dIvoire. AIDS and Behavior, 24 (12). pp. 3491-3500. ISSN 1090-7165
Nelson, David, Law, Graham, Mcgonagle, Ian, Turner, Paul, Jackson, Christine and Kane, Ros (2021) The Effect of Rural Residence on Cancer-Related Self-Efficacy with UK Cancer Survivors Following Treatment. Journal of Rural Health . ISSN 0890-765X
El Nsouli, Dayana, Ahmadi, Keivan, Nelson, David, Ahmed, Syed Imran and Curtis, Ffion (2021) A protocol for a systematic review evaluating the effectiveness of pharmacy-involved IPE activities using Kirkpatricks Four Level Evaluation Model. PROSPERO: International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews . ISSN ISSN
Toze, Michael, Ray, Mo, George, Thomas, Nelson, David and Sisson, Kelly (2021) End of life care for long-term neurological conditions: A meta-ethnographic review of the experiences of informal carers. Palliative Medicine, 35 (2). p. 335. ISSN 0269-2163
Nelson, David, Mcgonagle, Ian, Jackson, Christine and Kane, Ros (2021) What is known about the role of rural-urban residency in relation to self-management in people affected by cancer who have completed primary treatment? A scoping review. Supportive Care in Cancer, 29 (1). pp. 67-78. ISSN 0941-4355
For a full list of publications from members of the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health please visit the individual staff profiles, accessed via the links on the Members page.


Members | LIIRH | University of LincolnInstitute Members
A list of the members of theLincoln International Institute for Rural Health.
Professor Mark Gussy
Director of the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health
Global Professor of Rural Health and Social Care
mgussy@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Maxime Inghels
Research Fellow
minghels@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Agnes Nanyonjo
Research Fellow
ananyonjo@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr David Nelson
Research Fellow in Rural Health and Care
dnelson@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Helene Markham-Jones
Dr Paul Mee
Senior Research Associate
pmee@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Hayden Bird
Research Assistant
HaBird@lincoln.ac.uk
Dr Sam Cooke
Post-Doctoral Research Associate
scooke@lincoln.ac.uk


Postgraduate Research | LIIRH | University of LincolnCurrent Research Students
Dr. Muhammad Usman Shah
Dr. Muhammad Usman Shah is a physician and clinical researcher, currently working as a clinical research fellow at the Lincoln Heart Centre (United Lincolnshire Hospitals), the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health and the School of Life Sciences, University of Lincoln, working towards a Ph.D. degree award.
s degree in English at the University of Punjab, followed by a postgraduate certificate in leadership in health and social care from the University of Hull and the European Exam in Core Cardiology certificate.", 'Dr. Shah has been actively involved with research since his undergraduate studies, working on several descriptive studies and publishing in several renowned journals. From initial work in microbiology, he has now transitioned into cardiovascular medicine. As part of his Ph.D. program, he is currently working on exploring the biomolecular mechanisms of diabetic medications in patients with diabetes suffering from heart attacks. In addition, Dr. Shah is also using clinical data from this cohort of patients in the United Lincolnshire region to identify the optimal initiation times of this class of medications. This will help provide further guidance on the management of these conditions and potentially improve clinical care provided to patients in the region and even beyond. Furthermore, he is involved in patient recruitment and management in multiple, international, multicentre trials looking at further improving cardiovascular care.
Over the years, Dr. Shah has developed a particular skill set with regard to research activities including writing up project protocols, applying for ethical approvals for research projects involving National Health Service and its users, setting up clinical research databases, analysing big data sets obtained from these sources and then writing up manuscripts for publications. He is regularly involved with new project initiation and team discussions with regard to the feasibility of project delivery locally. He regularly collaborates with other researchers locally and nationally, exploring research ideas, developing projects, and progressing links within the research network.

LIIRH supervisor: Dr Maxime Inghels
Amanda Bloomfield MSc RDT RDH FAETC
Amanda Bloomfield has a background in oral health education and practice and has held teaching posts at Sheffield and Kings College London. She is the first Dental Care Professional recipient of the MSc in Minimal Intervention Dentistry (Kings College London).
Amanda joined the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health in 2023 as a Ph.D. student. Her study is investigating effective oral health integration into general health and social care.
Her research, Integrating oral health into general health and social care, is investigating the components of oral health in training and practice, efficiency, and barriers and facilitators to effective integration. As part of this project, Amanda is implementing a systematic review to establish what is known about oral health integration components and practice output. The results of the review will help determine how to improve professional knowledge, attitude and skill acquisition and aid in the construction of an effective competency framework for oral health integration. Research design by Kirkpatrick (1967) and Barr (1996) is informing the methodological frameworks for this evaluation.
Poor oral health is a complex and wicked problem with macro, meso and micro determinants. Dental treatment needs are high and access to dental professionals is constrained due to workforce issues and affordability. Reforms are needed to help engage the healthcare workforce to value oral health, refer to dental colleagues and incorporate oral health into general health promotion with strong implications to improve a range of health outcomes and quality of life.
LIIRH supervisors: Professor Mark Gussy (Director of Studies), Professor Amanda Kenny & Dr David Nelson
Ojali Yusuff
Ojali is a Social Science Doctoral candidate with the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health at the University of Lincoln. She holds a Master of Pharmacy Degree (Kings College London), a Postgraduate Diploma in General Pharmacy Practice (University College London), and an Independent Prescribing certificate (University of Manchester). Ojali has recently completed a National Population Health Fellowship with NHS England. Ojali has also co-led and supported work on workforce inequities by exploring the impact of racism and discrimination experienced by the primary care medical services workforce and providing recommendations for implementation by the primary care and integrated care systems team.
As a pharmacist, Ojali has practised as a specialist sexual health and HIV Pharmacist in specialist NHS Trusts and worked in general practice and the 111 and Urgent care settings as an Independent prescribing clinician. Over several years, Ojali also volunteered internationally, supporting education and training initiatives for Village Healthcare Trainers in Northern Uganda.
s doctoral research explores barriers and facilitators to health and care staff accessing well-being services within an Integrated Care system in a UK setting. Her research spans multiple professional groups across the integrated care system. It seeks to collaborate with health and social care organisations and ICS partners to understand health and care workforce well-being and add to the body of research in this field.", 'LIIRH Supervisors: Professor Mark Gussy & Dr David Nelson
Darren Fernandes
Darren is a doctoral research student candidate with the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health and the Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU) at the University of Lincoln.
His research is addressing the problems faced by the increasing number of survivors of colorectal cancer who are suffering with debilitating symptoms that affect their quality of life as a consequence of their treatment. The aims of his research are to: identify the symptoms and totality of problems
patients develop after treatment for colorectal cancer and understand how these issues are identified and addressed by clinicians.
The research will include: a systematic mixed methods review on how colorectal cancer patients non-gastrointestinal symptoms/problems are evaluated and addressed, a qualitative study of patients perceptions of post-colorectal cancer treatment symptoms and their management and the development and piloting of a post-colorectal cancer treatment symptom questionnaire.
The goal of this research is to produce new knowledge that will enable better assessment of patients following colorectal cancer treatment.
Supervisors: Prof Niro Siriwardena (CaHRU), Prof Graham Law (CaHRU), Dr David Nelson (LIIRH) and Prof Jervoise Andreyev


Seminars | LIIRH | University of LincolnSpeaker: Harold Lockwood Director Aguaconsult , Friday 16th December at 11:00 UK.
Title: What will it take to reach the global Sustainable Development Goal for drinking water and sanitation for all by 2030?
This seminar will provide an introduction to the global agenda for achieving universal and sustainably managed drinking water and adequate, equitable sanitation and hygiene as set by the international community. It will explore progress to date and outline some of the key approaches and bottlenecks that are seen to be limiting the rate of such progress in the global south. It will also introduce the framework for the Human Right to Water and Sanitation and how this might be relevant for marginalized groups in developed economies.
Harold Lockwood is a water specialist and the director of Aguaconsult, with over thirty years of experience focusing primarily on the rural sub-sector on institutional reform and sector policy development, decentralisation of governance functions, service delivery arrangements and sustainability of services. Harold holds an M.Sc. from Cranfield in rural development as well as a BA in Geography from Sussex University and has worked in 30 countries in Latin America, Asia and Africa, including a long-term position in Pakistan between 1993 and 1995, where he was a technical advisor to the Local Government and Rural Development Department and in Nicaragua from 1996 to 1999 where he was advisor to the National Institute for Water and Sanitation. Since then, Harold has worked on dozens of assignments for a range of clients including DFID, USAID, UNICEF, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the World Bank, private sector firms, international NGOs, philanthropic foundations and sector research institutions. In 2011 he co-authored a book on the sustainability of rural water service provision, which has contributed substantively to the way in which policy makers, practitioners and governments think about and support their investments globally. Since 2014, Harold has becoming increasingly involved in systems-based approaches to sector strengthening and change.
Speaker: Professor Derek Ward Director of Public Health for Greater Lincolnshire, Tuesday 28th June 2022 at 15:00 UK.
Title: Public health challenges in Lincolnshire and opportunities to address them through partnerships.
View Recording
Download Slides
Professor Derek Ward, will give a personal overview of the major public challenges within the county and explore the potential opportunities to develop partnerships with colleagues in the NHS, academic, private and third sectors to address these.
Professor Derek Ward is the Director of Public Health for Lincolnshire County Council, and is currently covering the same role in North Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire Councils. He is also a visiting Professor of Public Health at the University of Lincoln. Derek is the Public Health Clinical Research lead within the East Midlands Clinical Research Network (part of the NIHR) and has been on the board of trustees for of the Royal Society of Public Health and a member of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellent (NICE) public health advisory committee. Prior to his current roles he held a dual role within academia and the NHS. He was Director of the Health and Social Care Research Centre and a Professor of Public Health at the University of Derby and provided professional public health advice into the 4 Clinical Commissioning Groups across Derbyshire. Prior to taking up this joint role, he was Director of Public Health for Derby City for 5 years, firstly as an Executive Director within NHS Derby City Primary Care Trust and then latterly as a Chief Officer of Derby City Council. He also has significant experience of national and regional policy work, having been a Consultant in Public Health and a Senior Civil Servant in the Department of Health (DH).
Dr Joseph Larmarange (PhD)  Senior demographer at IRD University of Paris May 27th 2022 at 10am (UK)
Ivoire, Mali and Senegal", 'View Recording
Download Slides
Ivoire, Mali and Senegal. HIVST was integrated into the existing testing policies, programmes and activities. ATLAS HIVST distribution was organised through facility-based channels (delivery of HIVST kits through public or community-based health facilities), and community-based approaches involving outreach activities engaging: Female Sex Workers , Men Who Have Sex with Men, and Persons Who Inject Drugs . Peer educators conducted these outreach activities through group and face-to-face activities. Outreach activities represented the majority (~85%) of ATLASs distribution volume. ATLAS activities relied both on primary distribution  HIVST kits were distributed by peer educators and healthcare professionals to primary contacts for their personal use  and secondary distribution. With secondary distribution, primary contacts were invited to redistribute some HIVST kits to their peers, sexual partners, and clients. These secondary contacts were often members of key populations that can be more difficult to engage in HIV prevention, along with other peripheral vulnerable populations. Several research activities and surveys (quantitative, qualitative, costing, modelling) have been embedded within ATLAS. This communication will present a synthesis of the main findings.", '
Dr. Brian Rice, Associate Professor London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , Deputy Director, MeSH Consortium Friday 25 March 2022 at 1100 UK time
National and global HIV estimates  how do we arrive at them and how can we improve their accuracy?
Where we currently find ourselves in the world of disease surveillance has been informed by many top-down targets and frameworks. Developing global targets and indicators that are relevant to most settings and set at the correct level of resolution to inform action, is challenging. Focusing on the UNAIDS treatment for all targets and global AIDS monitoring indicators, and utilising data from the UK and Southern Africa, I will demonstrate how we can improve our use of routinely collected health data to monitor and inform our response.

Dr Hugh Sturrock  Chief Science Officer and co-founder of Locational and formerly Associate Professor  UCSF Global Health Group  Friday Feb 25th 2022 11am
Maps and apps: accelerating disease elimination with data science and technology
Diseases are inherently spatially variable, affecting populations in dramatically different ways. Understanding and predicting this variation in space and time offers an opportunity to target limited resources to those who need it, maximising impact of interventions. However, disease programs typically lack the expertise and capacity to analyse spatial data in a meaningful way. This presents a missed opportunity. With a focus on tropical diseases such as malaria and lymphatic filariasis, Hugh will present examples of how machine learning, spatial statistics and technology can be combined and made more accessible to help target and track interventions.

The Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health is delighted to welcome you to a guest webinar by Professor Sanjay Juvekar entitled
The North-South Collaborations: approach and opportunities in conducting global health research in rural India
View Recording
Download Slides
Recording Link and copy of presentation slides from Professor Sanjay Juvekar Webinar held on Friday 28 January 2022

The University of Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies is delighted to invite you to Professor Frank Tansers Inaugural Lecture.
s special interest which is the space-time evolution of infectious disease epidemics.", '
Professor Till Brnighausen
Director University of Heidelberg Institute of Global Health
Friday 27 November 2020 at 11:00am (UK time)
On behalf of Professor Frank Tanser, Director of the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health, we are delighted to invite you to join a guest webinar by Professor Till Brnighausen. Till will use this opportunity to talk about Intervention Research at Public Health
Till Brnighausen is a population health researcher who focuses on three areas of research: (i) establishing the causal impacts of large-scale global health interventions  such as HIV treatment, HIV prevention, and childhood vaccination  on health, economic and social outcomes; (ii) identifying and testing innovations to improve the delivery of global health interventions through public-sector health systems, and (iii) developing new methods for applied population-based health research.
Till has been the principal investigator on grants from a range large science funders, such as the US National Institutes of Health (including five R01 grants), the European Union, the European Commission, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, the Wellcome Trust, the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie), Elton John AIDS Foundation, and the Clinton Health Access Initiative. He has also received research funding from Harvard, Rush Foundation, William F. Milton Fund, Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the German Academic Exchange Service, International Development Research Centre Canada, USAID, WHO, UNAIDS and World Bank.
Till is Adjunct Professor of Global Health at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health in the US and a Senior Faculty at the Wellcome Trusts Africa Health Research Institute (ARHI) in South Africa.
He has published more than 300 peer-reviewed articles, including in Science, PNAS, Lancet, and PLOS Medicine. His work has been cited more than 17,000 times; his h-index is 63 and his i10-index is 205.
Professor Amanda Kenny, Violet Marshman Professor of Rural Health
The importance of context: realist methods for rural health research
On behalf of Professor Mark Gussy, Global Professor in Rural Health & Social Care, LIIRH presents a guest webinar by Professor Amanda Kenny.
Amanda will use this opportunity to talk about The importance of context: realist methods for rural health research Realist methods provide a radical departure from approaches generally used to address complex rural health questions. A radical approach is needed because of the uniqueness of the rural environment. In this presentation Amanda will draw on research studies to illustrate why realist methods are important in identifying causal explanations of why services/interventions may work differently in different contexts. Amanda will explore how realist methods can be used to drive solutions tailored to the population and context.
Professor Amanda Kenny PhD is a rural nurse and midwife and the inaugural Violet Marshman Professor of Rural Health. Amanda led the development of Australias largest multidisciplinary rural health school and is currently Director of the Violet Vines Marshman Centre for Rural Health Research. Her research involves extensive partnerships with rural communities. She is internationally recognised for her expertise in innovative methodology, integrated knowledge translation, and is a board member of the Canadian International Institution for Qualitative Methodology. As an expert witness, she has given evidence to major Australian government inquiries. In her career, Amanda has attracted almost AU$105 million dollars of grant funding for research and major strategic initiatives.
Professor Neil Squires
Thursday 4 June 2020 2pm
On behalf of Frank Tanser, Director of the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH) we are delighted to invite you to join a guest webinar by Professor Neil Squires. Neil will use this opportunity to talk about PHEs work to strengthen Global Health Security and lessons from work to strengthen International Health Regulation capacity for the COVID-19 response
Professor Neil Squires is Director of Global Public Health for Public Health England, with responsibility for PHEs global health activity and a Visiting Professor at the University of Lincoln.
Neil has spent the majority of his career working internationally for the Department for International Development, including being the Head of Profession for Health (2011-2014). He spent 4 years working in Mozambique, including being the donor lead for multi-agency support to Mozambiques Health Sector Wide Approach (SWAp); 2 years working in Bangladesh; 5 years as the Senior Health Advisor for West and North Africa, covering Nigeria, Ghana and Sierra Leone and working on DFIDs Africa Regional Programmes. Neil has also spent 3 years working at the European Commission, during which time he developed the EU Strategy on Human Resources for Health in Developing Countries. Prior to training in Public Health, Neil worked as a District Health Officer in Malawi, and in Leprosy control in India.
Professor Alan Whiteside Guest Webinar
Covid-19: What We Should Have, Could Have, but Did Not Learn from HIV
On behalf of Frank Tanser, Director of the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH) presents a guest webinar by Professor Alan Whiteside entitled Covid-19: What We Should Have, Could Have, but Did Not Learn from HIV
Professor Alan Whiteside, OBE, is CIGI Chair in Global Health Policy at the Balsillie School of International Affairs and Wilfrid Laurier University in Waterloo, Ontario. He has been involved in researching HIV/AIDS for over twenty years and is an internationally recognised academic and AIDS researcher. His current research program focuses on interrelated areas of global health concerns. These include, shifting burdens of disease, immigrant and migrant health, and the economic and social causes and consequences of HIV and AIDS.


[]


Affiliates | LIIRH | University of LincolnAva Harding-Bell
Ava Harding-Bell is Chair of Swinsehead Medical Groups Patient and Public Involvement Group and a member of NHS Englands Patient Participation Champions Group who help to shape patient services across England. She is also an active member of the Boston Primary Care Network Board in Lincolnshire. Ava has a background in diverse activist and advocacy roles, including serving as an elected councillor. She has substantial experience in community leadership, networking and relationship building, and multi-agency work, drawing on her own extensive lived experience of health and care in rural settings. Ava is a Community Researcher at the Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health. Since joining LIIRH she has served as a rapporteur, researcher, and advisor on a range of projects, including Macmillan-funded research into cancer survivorship and support services, a Cancer Research UK-funded study on Lung Cancer and a NIHR-funded project on developing a toolkit to inform best practice in health and care research in rural and coastal communities. For the latter this has involved engaging with Patient and Public Group members from across the county of Lincolnshire. Her interests include shaping and conducting research in ways that challenge rural and coastal health and care inequities, and the barriers communities experience when trying to engage with services. As a Community Researcher she is integral to the Institutes commitment to community impact, translating research findings and creating outputs that are accessible and relevant to communities outside of research and academia.


Research Highlights | LIIRH | University of LincolnSHORE
The SHORE study is a collaborative case study between the Health Protection Research Unit (HPRU) and the National Surveys of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles (NATSAL) based at University College London (UCL) it is led from LIIRH by Dr Helen Markham-Jones.
Sexual health and wellbeing are important aspects of quality of life across the lifespan yet positive outcomes across populations and geographical regions vary, and as such sexual wellbeing provides an important indicator of public health equity. The SHORE study aims to explore sexual health and disease determinants in one of the most deprived areas of England, a coastal resort in rural Lincolnshire, which is located in an area disproportionately experiencing poor health outcomes and social deprivation. SHORE researchers are developing a broad research programme to understand the highly complex determinants of health linked to sexuality-in-space in a remote coastal community. Sexual health and wellbeing are important aspects of quality of life across the lifespan yet positive outcomes across populations and geographical regions vary, and as such sexual wellbeing provides an important indicator of public health equity.
Targeting underserved communities in research: Caravan Park residents on Lincolnshires East Coast
Despite urgent calls to address the significant burden of physical and mental health, lower life expectancy, and high rates of preventable conditions in coastal communities, little is known about coastal residents living in mobile or temporary housing (e.g., caravans and park homes). The aim of this study led by LIIRH Director Professor Mark Gussy was to investigate the extent and characteristics of residents living in mobile or temporary housing on Englands East Coast. For this research data were from two main sources; the UK Office for National Statistics (ONS) and the Consumer Data Research Centre (CDRC), the United Kingdoms leading consumer data source.
This research identified that those living in mobile or temporary housing along Englands East Coast tend to live in areas with high levels of deprivation and have low income, lack of education and skills attainment, and limited employment. These factors are key social determinants associated with poor health and wellbeing. The study provides important insights on how place, geographical distribution, and population characteristics converge on health and wellbeing outcomes.
In conclusion we found that the idyllic beauty of Englands coastal areas can mask some of the worst health outcomes in the United Kingdom. Coastal communities may be valued for their natural and scientific importance, but without immediate action, poor health and wellbeing outcomes will continue. The LIIRH are now developing this work further by working with coastal communities and caravan park residents to transform these findings into accessible summaries as well as, co-designing health-promotion materials.

Understanding the impact of distance and disadvantage on lung cancer care and outcomes
There are wide variations and stark inequalities in lung cancer care and survival across the UK. Most work to date has focussed on improving clinical services and much less on the factors affecting patients access to treatment. This place-based study led by LIIRH investigators Dr David Nelson and Dr Sam Cooke in collaboration with colleagues from Queen Mary University of London and funded by Cancer Research UK and will explore and characterise how personal circumstances and distance from the location of specialist services intersect and impact on access to optimal lung cancer care and therefore on outcomes for patients with lung cancer.
In-depth, semi-structured qualitative interviews will be carried out with patients with lung cancer diagnosed within the prior three months and their informal carers, who live in an urban (Northeast London) or rural (Lincolnshire) setting.
A framework approach to thematic analysis will be applied to initially explore how patient and carer characteristics, and factors related to their location relative to specialist lung cancer services, interact to influence patients capability, opportunity, and motivation to engage with the optimal lung cancer care pathway. Subsequently we will compare and contrast these factors between rural and urban settings.
The findings will be used to develop a patient-centred engagement intervention which ensures that lung cancer services and support are tailored to the needs of local people in both urban and rural areas. This intervention will be co-designed with health professionals and people living with and affected by lung cancer.
Mental Health Presentations to Ambulance Services in Rural-Urban Areas  A systematic review
Despite the frequency of mental health presentations, pre-hospital clinicians have perceived they lack expertise and confidence managing people with mental health conditions. Furthermore, they face particular personal, organization and ethical challenges with this group of patients and that increasing knowledge, skills, treatment options and pathways would enhance the care provided. Emergency medical services in urban areas have shorter pre-hospital, response, on-scene and transport times when compared to those in rural areas. https://arc-em.nihr.ac.uk/research/mental-health-presentations-ambulances-rural-urban-areas
There is a lack of literature review studies of paramedic and ambulance clinician delivered interventions for managing people with mental health conditions despite these being a common and important presentation to Emergency Medical (ambulance) Services. This systematic review led from LIIRH by Dr David Nelson, in collaboration with colleagues from the CaHRU and DIRE teams at the University of Lincoln, is on interventional studies of people with mental health presentations to ambulance services in urban and rural settings.
The Rural and Coastal Health Research Toolkit
This toolkit developed by LIIRH researcher Dr Hayden Bird and funded by National Institute of Health Research East Midlands Clinical Research Network has been developed as guidance for researching health and care in rural and coastal communities. Emerging from a toolkit on BAME populations developed by the University of Leicester, LIIRH have undertaken evidence reviews, stakeholder engagement, and interviews and focus groups to create a series of core guidelines for researchers. The toolkit will be published in October and available to be used by the NIHR, funding applicants, researchers, practitioners, and students.
The Public Health Interventions Responsive Studies Team
LIIRH are partnering with the University of Nottingham and Loughborough University in the PHIRST-Light team. Public Health Intervention Responsive Studies Teams provide timely and accessible evaluations of public health interventions being delivered by local government organisations across the UK. The goal of PHIRST is to help build a knowledge base to share learning and inform decisions around future health interventions. PHIRST is funded by NIHR Public Health Research Programme. This project is led from LIIRH by Professor Mark Gussy.
HIV research in Sub Saharan Africa
The LIIRH team has been at the forefront of HIV research in Sub-Saharan Africa, with a particular focus on HIV epidemiology and improving access to HIV testing and prevention. LIIRH researchers, Dr Paul Mee and Dr Maxime Inghels are key investigators in two 1.7m international research projects funded by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH). At the heart ofu202fthe Harnessing male peer networks to enhance engagement with HIV prevention" (Imperative) trial, lies the promotion of Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) as a highly effective method for preventing HIV infection. In this study which will be conducted in collaboration with the Manicaland Centre for Public Health in Zimbabwe and other international partners from Africa, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany and the USA, the team of researchers will seek to establish the population impact of HIV self-test distribution through male social networks, coupled with innovative community-based support on PrEP uptake.u202f Zimbabwe, like many other countries in sub-Saharan Africa, faces the harsh reality of the HIV epidemic. With a substantial portion of the population affected by the virus, innovative approaches are urgently needed to combat its devastating impact.u202f The research findings hold promise for the development of a generalisable, multicomponent male peer-based HIV self-testing and PrEP uptake model that could be applied in other high HIV incidence settings, bringing hope for progress in the global fight against HIV.
Findings from the second project The changing face of HIV in the era of COVID-19: Maximising HIV incidence reduction through dynamic targeting of current and future distributions of acquisition risk", will be used to inform the future implementation of HIV prevention programmes. Although recent research has shown that there has been a substantial reduction in new HIV infections in rural areas in subSaharan Africa, events such as Covid-19 which disrupted HIV care and the shift to Dolutegravir-based regimens (a new antiretroviral medication to control HIV infection) could alter the burden of unsuppressed viral load and new HIV infections. Together with researchers from the French research institute Inserm, Dr Maxime Inghels is modelling the size and spatial distribution of the paediatric and adolescent HIV epidemic in Cote dIvoire. In partnership with the French NGO Solthis, the French Institut de Recherche et Dveloppement (IRD), and the Guinean Centre de recherche et de formation en infectiologie (CERFID). With funding from French Agency on AIDS (ANRS) (424,000). Dr Maxime Inghels is also investigating the impact of the introduction of injectable ARV treatment for people living with HIV in Senegal and contributed to two recent NIH-funded HIV research projects aimed at understanding and reducing HIV incidence in rural South Africa: the HITS trials Can HIV hot-spots be eradicated? (2.1m) and Causal Pathways to population health impact of HIV antiretroviral treatment (1.8m).
AIR-POP: Novel use of drones to improve HIV diagnosis among infants in Guinea
Early diagnosis is needed to enable immediate treatment initiation among HIV-infected children. In Guinea, less than 2 out of 10 HIV-exposed children are diagnosed early. Without diagnosis and treatment, the majority of infected children are likely to die in their first month of life. However, in Conakry, there are few laboratories capable of carrying out early HIV diagnosis, and traffic jams are a major obstacle to the rapid transport of blood samples. In partnership with the NGO Solthis. This project led by LIIRH researcher Dr Maxime Inghels aims to explore the use of uncrewed drones as a potential solution to the delays in the transportation of blood samples. The research is investigating the conditions and costs where transport by drone would be more cost-effective than transport by motorbike. When the samples arrive in the laboratory at Donka Hospital the "point of care" machine allows the early HIV diagnosis test to be carried out in 90 minutes, and the result is communicated to the carers by telephone. Failure for a sample to arrive in time at the laboratory leads to a postponed analysis till the following day or risks having the mother leave the hospital with her baby and coming back for the result at a later date when it may be too late for effective treatment to be initiated. When a new-born is diagnosed in time, he or she will have a much better chance of being linked to an appropriate care pathway, thereby increasing his or her chances of survival. The success of this project has led to significant support from the Guinean Ministries of Health and Transport, and the team are developing an ambitious research project to test this transport system on a larger scale.

View our Publications


Nursing Associate  | Apprenticeships | University of LincolnIntroduction to the Apprenticeship
A nursing associate is a new and vital member of the wider nursing team in England. This standalone role is designed to help bridge the gap between health and care assistants and registered nurses.
Nursing associates work with people of all ages in a variety of settings in health and social care. The role will contribute to the core work of nursing which will allow registered nurses to focus on more complex clinical care.
The School of Health and Social Care works closely with employers to provide employees with the opportunity to study for a Foundation degree (FdSc) to become a nursing associate through an apprenticeship funded by the Government and your employer.
The training combines work-based learning and education which is specific to becoming a nursing associate which, upon successful completion, leads to a Foundation degree and professional recognition, enabling you to register as a Nursing Associate with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Benefits to Employers
Our programme is suitable for new and existing healthcare staff who are responsible for delivering direct services and who have the potential to take on greater challenges and responsibility as qualified nursing associates.
The programme aims to enable employers to:
How You Study
The Nursing Associate Apprenticeship is a two-year (24 month) practice-based programme which combines learning and development through academic study, practice through the workplace, and alternative practice placements. The programme aims to develop your awareness of the knowledge, theories, skills, and behaviours for professional practice as a nursing associate, enabling you to apply professional skills and knowledge within a work-based context.
Apprentices learn through:
Please note:
Year One
Nursing Associate: Developing Self and Caring for the Individual
Year Two
Nursing Associate: Developing Others and Wider Care Engagement
Support
You will be supported in your learning and development by an expert range of nursing professionals, including an academic teaching team who haveextensive experience of working in practice settings as a trainee. The University of Lincoln offers you a range of additional support including a dedicated work placement team, carers, and industry professionals who will share their experiences and expertise, a dedicated subject librarian, student support, and a wellbeing service for access to services and information.
You will receive support from:
Fees and Funding
Employees:
If you wish to undertake this degree you will need an employer who can support your application as the course can be funded through government co-funding or the apprenticeship levy.
Employers:
https://www.healthcareers.nhs.uk/working-health/working-nhs/nhs-pay-and-benefits/agenda-change-pay-rates
If you are an organisation with a wage bill of 3 million pounds or more you will pay a small levy on any amount above that level. You can use that resulting funds to pay 100% of the course fees for any degree apprenticeships.
For further information on the School of Health and Social Care Nursing Associate Apprenticeship provision please contact Kerry Welch at kwelch@lincoln.ac.uk
Entry Requirements
The programme is suitable for new and existing health and social care staff, who are responsible for delivering direct services and who have the potential to take on greater challenges and responsibility as qualified nursing associates. Candidates have to be employed in a full-time equivalent relevant job role.
Applicants need their employer to agree to fund the course. Applicants also need to demonstrate their ability to study academic subjects at foundation degree level, debate topics and issues, study independently as well as a member of a group, and successfully complete a range of assignments including researched essays and practical tests.
Applicants must also have the right of abode in the UK.
They will need GCSEs Grade A-C in Maths and English or functional skills level 2 in Maths and English.
Demonstrable ability to study at Level 5 Diploma of Higher Education Level and commit to completing the Foundation Degree programme.
EU and International students whose first language is not English will require English Language IELTS 8,with any variations negotiated with the employer on a case-by-case basis. More For further details, please visit:http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/englishrequirements.
Contact the Programme Leader
Charli Clapham cclapham@lincoln.ac.uk
T:01522 88 6968
OR ALTERNATIVELY
Judith Mcleod jmcleod@lincoln.ac.uk





