Undergraduate Courses | School of Social and Political Sciences | University of Lincoln


Overseas Study | School of Social and Political Sciences | University of LincolnDiscover New Worlds With Global Opportunities
The University of Lincoln has a growing number of agreements with universities and partner institutions from Europe and around the world offering Erasmus+ and Study Abroad programmes. Overseas students can come to Lincoln and complete part of their course in theinspiring, vibrant,research-rich environment that the University of Lincoln offers. Current students of the University of Lincoln can choose from a range of global opportunities to study, work or volunteer.
COVID-19 Update:
Please note that we are awaiting further Government guidance about safe international travel before we can make any decisions about study abroad options. Please refer to ourTeaching and Learning During COVID-19pages for the most up-to-date information.
Great Reasons to Go Global
Students who go abroad can improve their confidence, grow their independence, and potentially increase their employment prospects.
International Academic Partners
The University of Lincoln has a growing number of agreements with a range of international partners for academic cooperation and student exchange programmes.
Previous students within our School have been able to undertake global study opportunities at a range of academic institutions located in Belgium, Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, and the USA.
s experience of studying abroad in this short video."]


Politics of Disorder | Research | University of LincolnUnderstandingPopulism, Authoritarianism, and Nationalism in Politics
The Politics of (Dis)order (POD) research group is a dynamic, inter-disciplinary and School-wide intellectual community of academic staff and post-graduate students working on different aspects of populism, authoritarianism and nationalism. The groups research focuses on the different ways in which we can understand political order and disorder in these fields. As a group we offer specific regional foci and internationally recognized expertise in Central Asia, the broader post-Soviet space, Central Europe, Asia and the United States.
The University of Lincoln has a strong-track record of internationally recognised research in populism, authoritarianism and nationalism and POD is the forum in which this research expertise is brought together.
Vico and Populism: the Return to a Barbarism of Reflection (Rico Isaacs)
Neoliberal Social Justice (Nick Cowen)
Hayek versus Trump: The Radical Rights Road to Serfdom (Aris TrantidisandNick Cowen)
Film and Identity in Central Asia (Rico Isaacs)
Populism and Securitization: The Corrosion of Elite Security Authority in a US  Mexico Border State (Mike Slaven)Journal of Global Security Studies
Constructions and (attempted) deconstructions of memory nationalism: Central European lessons (Christian Karner)
The Competing Politics of Austrian Glocalization: Covid-19, Crime, and (Anti-)Racism (Christian Karner)
Nationalism Revisited: Austrian Social Closure from Romanticism to the Digital Age (Christian Karner)
The Role of Party Interest Articulation in the Personalist-Authoritarian Regimes of the Central Asian Republics of Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Tajikistan
Ostrom, Floods and Mismatched Property Rights (Nick Cowen)International Journal of the Commons
Building an authoritarian regime: Strategies for autocratisation and resistance in Belarus and Slovakia (Aris Trantidis)
Academic Staff
Job Title
Dr Rico Isaacs
Dr Nick Cowen
Associate Professor in Law
Dr Christian Karner
Professor of Sociology
DrAris Trantidis
Dr Edwin Bacon
Head of the School of Social and Political Sciences
Senior Lecturer in International Politics
School of Social and Political Sciences Research Groups
ParliLinc
ParliLincs aim is to enhance research, facilitate impact and promote engagement with parliaments and legislatures in the UK and beyond.
Lincoln Policy Hub
The Lincoln Policy Hub was launched in May 2021 to bring together the latest insights, evidence and commentary from our researchers, in a comprehensive resource for both academics and policymakers.
Connect with Us


Research Summaries | Research | University of LincolnResearch Summaries
Process Matters: Petitions Systems in Britain's Legislatures
In the twenty-first century petitioning is one of the most common forms of political participation. At the national and devolved levels petitions systems now exist in the House of Commons, the Scottish Parliament and the National Assembly for Wales. However, despite their popularity with the public, the introduction of such systems have not been an unalloyed success.
Catherine Bochel
Parliament and Policy- Predicting Success and Failure
Given the challenges and uncertainties facing contemporary societies, the quality of government legislation, and consequently parliamentary scrutiny, is of great importance. Drawing on insights from a range of literatures, this research analysed the passage through Parliament, and subsequent evaluations of success or failure from the perspectives of those centrally involved with them, of two pieces of legislation  the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 and the Academies Act 2010.
Philip Begley, Catherine Bochel,Hugh Bochel, Andrew Defty, Jan Gordon,Kaisa Hinkkainen, Ben Kisby, Steve McKay, Gerry Strange
Parliament and Welfare Policy: The 2010 Intake in the House of Commons
This brief report provides a summary of research undertaken during the 2010 Parliament drawing upon interviews with 29 MPs elected at the 2010 general election. It begins with a brief discussion of the characteristics of the intake, before moving on to consider their attitudes to a variety of social policy topics, including some comparison with previous research on that area.
Hugh BochelandAndrew Defty
Effective petitions systems
In the twenty-first century, petitioning is one of the most common forms of political participation. This research focused on petitions systems in the light of the increasing use of petitioning as a participatory tool. It drew upon case studies of petitions systems from the House of Commons, the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales, Wolverhampton City Council, an urban unitary council in England, and Renfrewshire Council in Scotland.
Catherine Bochel
Evaluation of Families WorkingTogether
Families Working Together (FWT) is an intervention project designed by LincolnshireCounty Council (LCC) to improve outcomes for families in Lincolnshire who areexperiencing multiple, complex needs. The project aimed to explore how a broad range ofpublic, private and voluntary sector organisations can work together more efficiently andeffectively to this end. The project was one of 16 community budget pilots promoted bythe government across England.
Sue Bond-Taylor and Peter Somerville
Parliamentary scrutiny ofthe UK intelligence andsecurity services
This research, funded by the Leverhulme Trust, examinedthe role of Parliament and parliamentarians in the scrutinyof the intelligence and security agencies as it has developedsince the Security Service Act 1989. Previous researchhas focused overwhelmingly on the Intelligence andSecurity Committee, and while the work of the Committeeformed an important part of this project, the study alsolooked more broadly at the scrutiny of intelligenceand security issues within Parliament as a whole, with aparticular focus on the nature and extent of parliamentaryinterest and understanding.
Hugh Bochel, Andrew Defty andJane Kirkpatrick


School of Social and Political Sciences | College of Arts Social Sciences and Humanities | University of LincolnSchool of Social and Political Sciences
Welcome to the School of Social and Political Sciences.
Welcome
Welcome to the School of Social and Political Sciences. Our school has a reputation for research excellence and our academic staff are engaged in cutting-edge research that is not only pushing the boundaries of our subjects but is also having real life impact. We are committed to giving all our students not only the best education, but the best experience possible. We encourage our students to think critically and engage inreal-world experiences, in the classroom, on placements, and abroad, allowing them togain skills that will enable them to reach their full potential in their future career.
Professor Gary RawnsleyHead of School

Undergraduate Courses
Explore the undergraduate degrees available at the School of Social and Political Sciences.
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Programmes
We have a wide variety of postgraduate taught and research programmes within the School of Social and Political Sciences.
Postgraduate Courses
Research
We have a wealth of exciting research taking place in the School of Social and Political Sciences. Our research groups include ParliLinc, Lincoln Policy Hub, and Politics of (Dis)order. 
Explore Our Research
Teaching and Learning
To help support our student experience, we have dedicated resources for teaching and learning here at Lincoln. 
Explore Resources
Global Opportunities
The University of Lincoln has a growing number of agreements with universities and partner institutions from Europe and around the world, allowing our students to gain valuable experiences studying abroad.
Find Out More
School Staff
Find staff members within the School of Social and Political Sciences.
View School Staff List
Social and Political Sciences at Lincoln
Find out more about studying with the School of Social and Political Sciences.

Personal Tutors
As part of your studies, you will be allocated a personal tutor who you can meet with. Your personal tutor can help you with things such as, settling into student life, supporting your academic development, and providing a point of contact for queries about your academic progress.
Model United Nations 2023
Students from the School of Social and Political Sciences took part in a Model United Nations conference in the Lincolnshire County Council chambers. The session sees students roleplay as delegates to the United Nations and simulate UN committees.

The teaching on my course really blew my mind in many respects  it completely shifted my thinking and gave me a new perspective on our society, the power structures within it, and how people drive change.
Grace Corn
BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics
Connect with Us


Research | School of Social and Political Sciences | University of LincolnResearch
Real-life Impact
Our research centres and groups are bringing together a range of expertise from across the School of Social and Political Sciences and beyond, delivering cutting-edge and timely studies that are having a real impact in society.
These include the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre, the Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research, the Politics of (Dis)order Research Group, and the Violence in Society Research Group.
Research Centres and Groups
Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Academics, practitioners, and those with lived experience are addressing the social issues that impact the lives of families.
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre
Establishing Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research and teaching in parliamentary and legislative studies.
Politics of (Dis)order Research Group
An interdisciplinary community of academic staff and students working on different aspects of populism, authoritarianism, and nationalism.
Violence in Society Research Group
The group maintains a comprehensive approach to the study of violence to ensure recognition of its interpersonal, symbolic, and structural nature.
Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Academics, practitioners, and those with lived experience are addressing the social issues that impact the lives of families.
Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre
Establishing Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research and teaching in parliamentary and legislative studies.
Politics of (Dis)order Research Group
An interdisciplinary community of academic staff and students working on different aspects of populism, authoritarianism, and nationalism.
Violence in Society Research Group
The group maintains a comprehensive approach to the study of violence to ensure recognition of its interpersonal, symbolic, and structural nature.
The Lincoln Policy Hub
The Lincoln Policy Hub brings together the latest insights, evidence, and commentary from our researchers, in a one-stop-shop for both academics and policymakers. By connecting politicians, decision makers, and practitioners with our research, we can help deliver evidence-based policy that meets the challenges facing society today.


Postgraduate Programmes | School of Social and Political Sciences | University of Lincoln


Personal Tutors | School of Social and Political Sciences | University of LincolnPersonal Tutors
Students within the School of Social and Political Sciences will each join a small personal tutor group. These groups are led by a designated member of our academic team and will act as your personal tutor during your full period of study at Lincoln. In your first year, personal tutors will liaise with their students regularly as a group and individually.
Your personal tutor aims to:


Parliaments and Public Policy | Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre | University of LincolnParliaments and Public Policy
Exploring Attitudes to Social Policy
From the mid-2000s, Hugh Bochel and Andrew Defty have undertaken interviews with MPs and Peers to explore their attitudes to social policy issues (such as the role of the state in providing welfare, how welfare provision should be financed, and more specific issues such as the NHS and the social security system), and also their views on the role of Parliament in scrutinising the actions of government.
This work has been published in a book,Welfare Policy Under New Labour(Policy Press, 2007), and in a series of articles in journals such as Journal of Social Policy,Parliamentary AffairsandSocial Policy and Society.
Find out more about our research onparliaments and policy.
Welfare Policies
Research by Samantha Shave examines past parliaments role in the making and breaking of welfare policies. In particular, Samantha is interested in the development, impact and discontinuation of poor relief policies and practices in England, and how people from all areas of society were involved in this past policy process. This research has culminated inPauper Policies: Poor Law Practice in England, 1780-1850and a paper inThe Historical Journal.
Using a policy process perspective, Samantha has demonstrated the importance of early welfare scandals, especially after the centralisation of poor law administration in 1834. Scandals impacted on the development of welfare policies, and also allowed for the opinions and experiences of the poorest to reach Parliament. An essay in the edited collectionMedicine and the Workhouseand more recently a paper inContinuity and Changehave examined the role of scandals in the development of medical and child treatment policies respectively.
Key to this research has been the complex linkage of various documents held in The Parliamentary Archives, The National Archives, digitalised collections of British Parliamentary Papers and Hansards Parliamentary Debates, as well as local record offices. Samantha is now undertaking research into welfare scandals prior to 1834, and the implementation of deterrent workhouse systems beyond England.
Legislature Size and Welfare: Evidence from Brazil
Legislature Size and Welfare: Evidence From Brazil
The authors find that the increase in legislature size significantly improves social welfare. Increasing the city council size by one legislator lowers infant mortality by 2.01 children per one thousand infants born and reduces post-neonatal mortality by 0.90 children per one thousand infants who survived their first 28 days. Larger councils also increase enrolment by 2.58 children in elementary education classrooms without reducing school quality.
s pre-electoral coalition. Therefore, mayors face lower bargaining costs in larger legislatures and are able to boost public investments with fewer constraints. Each additional legislator also leads to 104 politically appointed bureaucrats, and research shows that political appointees improve public service provision and enhance accountability in Brazil.", 'To assess the robustness of their results, Danilo and his co-authors also surveyed 174 former councillors who served during the 2005-2008 term, the period they analyse in the article. The councillors confirm that mayors use bureaucratic appointments and political favours to secure legislative support. The findings are in line with quantitative evidence from a novel dataset, collected specifically for this research, which included 346,553 laws passed in 63 municipalities. While all municipalities mention public goods in their legislation, those with larger city councils had 15 per cent more proposals about public service delivery.
The article is available athttps://osf.io/preprints/socarxiv/x97gfand is forthcoming in the American Journal of Political Science.

Image: Copyright UK Parliament/Jessica Taylor -Parliamentary copyright images are reproduced with the permission of Parliament.


Public Engagement | Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre | University of LincolnPublic Engagement
Putting People at the Heart of Politics
Political engagement and policy is generating more debate than perhaps ever before. The University of Lincoln is attempting to enhance understanding of the relationship between the British public and the processes which shape political decision-making.
Dr Catherine Bochel from the School of Social and Political Sciences was one of only five researchers in the UK selected for the House of Commons Academic Fellowship Scheme, which granted her rare access to Parliament. As a Fellow, Dr Bochel had unique access to the Parliamentary estate and House services and she worked with the House to build public understanding of Parliament, and inform, evaluate and enhance the Houses work and that of its Members. Dr Bochel made regular visits to Westminster and was working alongside Parliamentary staff and politicians to explore how effectively Parliament engages with the public in its decision-making processes.
s research examined whether the concept of 'procedural justice'  ensuring that a fair process has been followed  can be used as a framework to examine mechanisms for public engagement with Parliament. She began her research by scoping the nature and extent of public engagement with Parliament. The second phase developed a framework to measure the degree of voice and participation. This involved interviews with MPs, peers, clerks and other parliamentary officials.", 'Dr Bochel said: "Parliament is keen to encourage the public to get involved in politics, and people can now do this in a variety of ways. However, it is important that when they come into contact with Parliament their experience of the process is as positive as possible. In a liberal democratic system people may not get everything they ask for, so their treatment by the system and experience of it is very important; final decisions are made by elected representatives, so the public must be able to see that the decision-making process is fair and transparent."
Dr Bochels study emerged from her previous research on e-petitions, which has helped to shape the government and Parliament e-petitions system, including the introduction of a Petitions Committee and a range of new measures not dependent on signature thresholds.
The issue of political participation is a hot research topic for academics in the University of Lincolns School of Social and Political Sciences. Other experts at Lincoln explore youth participation, and have written books on the issue, as well as the devolution of powers to local authority levels, and how the UKs security.
Read more about Dr Catherine Bochel's research.
Young People and Political Engagement
Over a number of years, Ben Kisby has undertaken research on youth political engagement, with a particular focus on citizenship education and governmental attempts to enhance young peoples political knowledge and skills.
Ben has published a number of journal articles, book chapters and a monograph in this area, withThe Labour Party and Citizenship Education(MUP, 2012) examining the introduction of compulsory citizenship classes in secondary schools in England. More recently, Ben has been researching with Bradley Allsop how neo-liberal thought and policies have impacted on youth political engagement in the UK, and also whether there was a youthquake in the 2017 general election in Britain.
In addition, Ben has written a book with Lee Jerome at Middlesex University on The Rise of Character Education in Britain, which will be published by Palgrave in September 2019, and which challenges the individualistic and moralistic ideas underlying this form of education, arguing that citizenship education, properly conceived, is far more likely to strengthen British democracy.


Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre | Research | University of LincolnLincoln Parliamentary Research Centre
Engaging with Parliaments in the UK and Beyond
The University of Lincoln has a record of undertaking research into policy, parliaments and other key political institutions. It also seeks to build upon this to ensure that research informs teaching and the wider experiences of students at all levels.
The overall aim of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre (ParliLinc) is to establish Lincoln as a recognised centre of excellence for research and teaching in parliamentary and legislative studies. It hasfivebroad aims designed to enhance research, facilitate impact, and promote engagement with parliaments and legislatures in the UK and beyond:
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Key Research Themes
Parliaments and Public Policy
Exploring the role of legislatures in public policy formation and conducting research on past parliaments role in the making and breaking of welfare policies, parliament, and social policy.
Explore Our Research
Scrutiny
Examining scrutiny of the executive by parliament and exploring oversight committees, witness diversity, legislatures and the intelligence services, the Liaison Committee, prime ministers, and parliament.
Explore Our Research
Public Engagement
Investigating the relationship between the legislature and the public, including parliamentary engagement with the public, e-petitions, political engagement with young people, and citizenship education.
Explore Our Research
Parliamentary Studies
Parliamentary Studies is an undergraduate module co-taught by scholars from the University of Lincoln and officials from the Houses of Parliament.
Learn About the Module
Centre Members
A list of members of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre,
View List of Members
Publications
Publications by members of the Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre.
Read Our Publications
ParliLinc Blog
The Parlilinc blog features information about forthcoming events, new research, policy briefings, and tweets by members of the Lincoln Parliamnetary Research Centre.


Parliamentary Studies | Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre | University of LincolnParliamentary Studies at Lincoln
Parliament in the Spotlight
The University of Lincoln is one of 24 UK universities running theParliamentary Studiesmodule with the UK Houses of Parliament. Parliamentary Studies is an undergraduate module co-taught by scholars from the School of Social and Political Sciences and officials from the Houses of Parliament.
Following a competitive process the University of Lincoln was selected to run the module from 2016. The programme was expanded in 2019 and Lincoln was delighted to be selected once again to deliver the programme for a further five years.
Parliamentary Studies at Lincoln aims to provide an in-depth knowledge of how the UK Parliament works, in theory and in practice. It focuses on Parliaments twin relationships with the Executive and with the citizen and situates these within broader theories and debates about democratic accountability and the nature of representation. The module looks in detail at particular aspects of Parliamentary activity, such as the legislative process, parliamentary questions and debates and the select committee system, and examines ongoing debates around parliamentary reform including restoration and renewal and House of Lords reform.
There can be no better time to learn about politics  how Parliament operates and to hear from the people who work there  than right now when the topic is on everyones mind. Our Parliamentary Studies Module brings the procedures of the House of Commons and the House of Lords to life, providing a wonderful complement to on-campus teaching with a range of resources and services aimed at engaging students and university staff.
Rt. Hon. John Bercow MP
Former Speaker of the House of Commons
Expertise at Lincoln
In addition to a series of visiting speakers from the Houses of Parliament, the module draws on the extensive expertise on parliament within the School of Social and Political Sciences and the ParliLinc research centre, including sessions on petitions systems, scrutiny of the executive and representation. The module also enjoys the support of local MPs and members of the House of Lords who have contributed to teaching on the module.
A highlight of the module is undoubtedly the annual visit to Westminster to watch parliamentary business and receive briefings on the operation of Parliament from members and staff.
The module also draws on the insights of members of Lincolns alumni network now working at Westminster. This includes graduates of the School of Social and Political Sciences now sitting in the House of Commons and a large number of Lincoln graduates now working in the Westminster and constituency offices of MPs. This has allowed for the inclusion of a strong employability element in the programme which exposes current students to the various interesting and rewarding employment opportunities at Westminster.
Our alumni have contributed to sessions on working in parliament as part of the annual visit to Westminster and in Lincoln, ensuring that for some of our graduates at least, engagement with parliament continues beyond the Parliamentary Studies module.
The Parliamentary Studies module is coordinated byDr Andrew Defty.
Comparative Legislatures
Opportunities for parliamentary studies at Lincoln continue at postgraduate level with a new Comparative Legislatures module offered as part of the School of Social and Political Sciences MA in Politics. The Comparative Legislatures module allows students to examine differences in the form, structure, role and impact of legislature across a range of states. Drawing on the wide range of expertise within the School the module focuses on the differences between legislative systems through a series of case studies which examine the operation of legislatures in a number of states including the United Kingdom, the USA, Australia and Russia as well as the European Parliament and the devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The module also aims to provide the students with the opportunity to visit legislative chambers beyond Westminster. Students on the module this year visited the Scottish Parliament.
The Comparative Legislatures module is coordinated byDr Mark Bennister.
Through the annual School of Social and Political Sciences overseas study trip students at all levels have been provided with an opportunity to visit a range of institutions across Europe and North America including legislatures. As part of these trips students have had the opportunity to visit and received briefings at legislatures including the US Congress, the European Parliament in Brussels and Strasbourg, and the national parliaments of Germany and the Netherlands.



Scrutiny | Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre | University of LincolnScrutiny
Parliamentary Committees and Witness Diversity
Issues of diversity in elected bodies have been highlighted in recent years, primarily around the characteristics of elected representatives, but more recently in respect of the treatment of those working in such institutions, particularly women. However, it is also important to consider who parliaments hear from, with one crucial element of that being the work of the committees that scrutinise legislation and the actions of governments.
There are a variety of academic literatures that can be used to support arguments for a greater diversity of witnesses to parliamentary committees, including those around representation, policy-making and evaluation, and engagement, participation, and legitimacy.
During 2017, Hugh Bochel was an academic fellow of the Scottish Parliament, and used analysis of data on witnesses and interviews with MSPs and parliamentary officials to draw up areport for the Parliamenthighlighting, among other things, the under-representation of women among committee witnesses. An article drawing on the work has also been published inSocial Policy and Society. Ongoing research includes considering developments at the ScottishParliament and also committee witnesses at Westminster.
Hugh is now undertaking work on witnesses to public bill committees in the House of Commons.
The House of Commons Liaison Committee and the Prime Minister
This research explores the Prime Ministers appearances at the Liaison Committee. Mark Bennister was awarded aparliamentary fellowship in November 2016to study these sessions, focusing on the functioning and effectiveness of the Liaison Committee sessions with the Prime Minister. These sessions have questioned four Prime Ministers since 2002 and provide a rich source of material relating to the relationship between the Prime Minister and Parliament, aside from appearances on the floor of the House. The research has led to the publication of a co-authored briefing on the Liaison Committee with the House of Commons Library.
In March 2019, written evidence on the Prime Ministers appearanceswas publishedas part of the Liaison Committees inquiry into select committee effectiveness.
Mark Bennister was previously awarded 34,000 by the Nuffield Foundation from 2015 to 2016 to research the session. Together with Dr Alix Kelso, University and Dr Phil Larkin, University of Canberra, they published a report,Questioning The Prime Minister:How Effective Is The Liaison Committee? The project draws on academic research, published by the team in theBritish Journal of Politics and International Relationsin 2016.



Publications | Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre | University of LincolnPublications
Representative Recent Publications
2022
Bennister, Mark(2022)The Contemporary UK Prime Minister. When the Personal Becomes Political: Agency, Character, Personality and Celebrity.Asian Journal of Comparative Politics.ISSN 2057-8911
2021
Bennister, Mark(2021)Navigating three faces of decentred leadership in the UK Parliament. International Journal of Public Leadership.ISSN 2056-4929.
Bennister, MarkandWorthy, Ben(2021) Jeremy Corbyn and the dilemmas of leadership.In: Corbynism in Perspective: The Labour Party under Jeremy Corbyn. Building Progressive Alternatives. Agenda Publishing. ISBN 9781788212915.
Bochel, Catherine (2021)Procedural Justice: New Approaches to Parliament's Engagement with the Public? Parliamentary Affairs. ISSN 0031-2290.
Bochel, HughandBerthier, Anouk(2021)Committees and witnesses in the Scottish Parliament: Beyond the usual suspects? Scottish Affairs, 30 (3). pp. 337-354.ISSN 0966-0356.
Bochel, HughandBerthier, Anouk(2021)Parliamentary Committee Witnesses: Representation and Diversity. The Journal of Legislative Studies .ISSN 1357-2334.
Defty, Andrew(2021) Familiar but not intimate: Executive oversight of the UK intelligence and security agencies.Intelligence and National Security . pp. 1-16.ISSN 0268-4527.
Sloam, James,Kisby, Ben,Henn, Mattet al(2021)Voice, Equality and Education: The Role of Higher Education in Defining the Political Participation of Young Europeans. Comparative European Politics, 19 (3). pp. 296-322.ISSN 1472-4790.
2020
Bochel, HughandBerthier, Anouk(2020)A Place at the Table? Parliamentary Committees, Witnesses and the Scrutiny of Government Actions and Legislation.Social Policy and Society, 19 (1). pp. 1-17.ISSN 1474-7464.
Defty, Andrew(2020)From committees of parliamentarians to parliamentary committees: comparing intelligence oversight reform in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the UK. Intelligence and National Security, 35 (3). pp. 367-384.ISSN 0268-4527.
Goodwin, Mark,Holden Bates, StephenandMcKay, Stephen(2020) Electing to Do Womens Work? Gendered Divisions of Labour in UK Select Committees, 1979-2016.Politics & Gender. pp. 1-33.ISSN 1743-923X.
Worthy, BenjaminandBennister, Mark(2020)Dominance, defence and diminishing returns? Theresa Mays Leadership Capital July 2016July 2018. British Politics.ISSN 1746-918X.
2019
Allsop, BradleyandKisby, Ben(2019)The Youthquake in British Politics: Myth or Reality? Societies, 9 (4). pp. 1-15.ISSN 2075-4698.
Begley, Philip,Bochel, Catherine,Bochel, Hughet al(2019) Assessing Policy Success and Failure: Targets, Aims and Processes.Policy Studies, 40 (2). pp. 188-204.ISSN 0144-2872.
Begley, Philip,Bochel, Catherine,Bochel, Hughet al(2019) Evidence-informed or value-based? Exploring the scrutiny of legislation in the UK Parliament.The journal of legislative studies, 25 (1). pp. 1-20.ISSN 1357-2334.
Bochel, Catherine (2019)Petitions Systems: Outcomes, 'Success' and 'Failure'.Parliamentary Affairs, 73 (2). pp. 233-252. ISSN 0031-2290.
McKay, Steve,Goodwin, MarkandBates, Stephen Holden(2019) A Means to an End and an End in Itself: Select Committee Membership, Parliamentary Roles and Parliamentary Careers, 1979Present.Parliamentary Affairs, 72 (4). pp. 799-820.ISSN 0031-2290.
Walker, Aileen,Jurczak, Naomi,Bochel, Catherineet al(2019)How Public Engagement Became a Core Part of the House of Commons Select Committees.https://repository.lincoln.ac.uk/articles/journal_contribution/24377773 Parliamentary Affairs.ISSN 0031-2290.
2018
Bennister, MarkandLarkin, Philip(2018)Accountability in parliament.In: Exploring Parliament. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780198788430.



Centre Members | Lincoln Parliamentary Research Centre | University of LincolnCentre Members
Management Board
Dr Mark Bennister
Dr Andrew Defty
Dr Samantha Shave
Dr Ben Kisby
Dr Catherine Bochel
Centre Members
Professor Duncan French
Dr Rico Isaacs
Dr Edwin Bacon
Dr Danilo Freire
Dr Andrew Kythreotis
Dr Alexander Oaten
Dr Brigid Fowler
Paul Evans
Matthew Taylor
Sir Roy Stone CBE
Baroness Gillian Merron
David Cutner


School Staff | School of Social and Political Sciences | University of LincolnSchool of Social and Political Sciences Staff


Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research | Research | University of LincolnCentre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research
Our Research
The Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research (CFFR) brings together academics, multi-agency practitioners and those with lived experience to address and understand pressing social issues that directly impact on the lives of families.
Building from the foundations of a Future Leaders Fellowship calledFollowing Young Fathers Further, led by Centre Director, Professor Anna Tarrant, the Centre is distinctive within the Higher Education sector for its combined focus on fatherhood and family welfare as core areas of societal significance. Taking this work forwards collaboratively, CFFR advocates for father-inclusion and the wider societal benefits of promoting engaged fatherhood as a route to improving family wellbeing.
Our Mission
A key aim of the Centre is to advance knowledge and expertise in fatherhood and family research, with a view to influencing academic, policy, and practice agendas both locally and (inter)nationally though impactful social sciences research. We are especially committed to the use and development of participatory and collaborative methodologies including co-creation and co-production to ensure interventions are effectively tailored to the needs of both beneficiaries and providers.
Key themes and areas of expertise held by our academic and multi-agency partners include:
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'What We Offer
First established in 2023, the Centre continues to grow and is developing its offer. Core strands of activity include: an annual keynote speaker event; delivery on applied research projects with local and national partners; influencing family policy and other relevant arenas of policy that impact on families; providing consultancy and evaluation; and leading and contributing to national and international research networks and projects.
You can learn more about our work and our outputs by exploring these pages.
Following Young Fathers Further
The Following Young Fathers Further project is exploring new ways of embedding father-inclusive research, practice, and policy in the UK.
The Project Website
Transforming the Lives of Young Fathers
 study, which is funded by UK Research and Innovation and has seen the co-creation of the Young Dads Collective in Leeds and Grimsby.", 'Explore the Research
Caregiving Dads, Breadwinning Mums
A new research study, funded by the Nuffield Foundation, has found that modern parents want to do things differently, but parental leave policies make it hard to share care.
Read the Study
Our Objectives
A major strategic goal is to strengthen family and societal wellbeing via fatherhood and family research, through innovative participatory methods and unique university-community partnerships.
Read Our Objectives
Centre Members
View the current list of members of the Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research.
List of Members
Publications
View a list of recent publications written by members of the Centre for Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research.
Read the Publications


Publications | Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research | University of LincolnPublications
Recent Publications
Tarrant, A., Way, L. and Ladlow, L. (2024)Increasing father engagement among minoritised fathers through proactive service support and outreach: insights from a participatory pilot study,Community, Work and Family,DOI:10.1080/13668803.2023.2299248
Gaunt, R., and Deutsch, F.M. (2024) Mothers Instinct? Biological Essentialism and Parents Involvement in Work and Childcare.Sex Roles,https://doi.org/10.1007/s11199-024-01451-8
Neale, B. and Tarrant, A. (2024)The Dynamics of Young Fatherhood: Exploring the Parenting Journeys and Support Need of Young Fathers,Bristol: Policy Press.
Ladlow, L. (2024) I dont feel like a young dad. I feel like an unprepared dad: young parenthood, welfare support and accelerated transitions to adulthood in the UK and Sweden,Journal of Youth Studies, DOI: 10.1080/13676261.2024.2305915
Pinho, M. and Gaunt, R. (2023) Parental and work-related identities among primary caregiving and primary breadwinning mothers and fathers,Families, Relationships and Societies, 1-19.
Tarrant, A. (2023)Instigating father-inclusive practice interventions with young fathers and multi-agency professionals: the transformative potential of qualitative longitudinal and co-creative methodologies,Families, Relationships and Societies,1-19.
Hughes, K. and Tarrant, A. (2023)Men, Families and Poverty: Tracing the Intergenerational Trajectories of Placed-Based Hardship,Palgrave Macmillan.
Andreasson, J., Tarrant, A., Ladlow, L., Johansson, T., and Way, L. (2022)Perceptions of gender equality and engaged fatherhood among young fathers: parenthood and the welfare state in Sweden and the UK,Families, Relationships and Societies,12 (3): 323-340.
Way, L., Tarrant, A., Ladlow, L., York, J., Gorzelanczyk, A., Brown, D., & Patterson, W. (2022) Co-creating with Young Fathers: Producing Community-Informed Training Videos to Foster more Inclusive Support Environments.Sociological Research Online,27(3), 675-683.https://doi.org/10.1177/13607804221090550
Tarrant, A.(2021)Fathering and Poverty:Uncovering Mens Participation in Low-Income Family Life,Bristol: Policy Press.
Gaunt, R., Jordan, A., Tarrant, A., Chanamuto, N., Pinho, M., Wezyk, A. (2022).Caregiving dads, breadwinning mums: Transforming gender in work and childcare?
Jordan, A. (2020) Masculinizing Care? Gender, Ethics of Care, and Fathers Rights Groups.Men and Masculinities,23(1), 20-41.https://doi.org/10.1177/1097184X18776364
s Movements and Masculinities,Springer Link."]


Centre Members | Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research | University of LincolnCentre Members
Management Board
Professor Anna Tarrant
Dr Ana Jordan
Dr Linzi Ladlow
Rosanna Bartlett
Affiliated Members
Professor Ruth Gaunt
Professor Kersten Meints
Nicki Pierce
Dr Rachael Sharpe
Professor Mo Ray
Professor Hanya Pielichaty
Rowenna Pyott
Dr Jennifer Johnston
Professor Ros Kane
Dr Sue Bond-Taylor
Dr Carolina Comacho Villa


Our Objectives | Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research | University of LincolnOur Objectives
Strengthening Family and Societal Wellbeing
A major strategic goal of the centre is to strengthen family and societal wellbeing via fatherhood and family research that is driven by innovative participatory methods,unique university-community partnerships, and dialogues with existing data.
Ourkeyobjectivesare:
Each of these objectives are underpinned by an ethos of constructive, compassionate, and mutually supportive approaches developed to support and challenge our researchers and partners to achieve their highest potential.
To date, we have received or are receivingexternal funding fromUK Research and Innovation through the Future Leaders Fellowship scheme (Professor Anna Tarrant), the Nuffield Foundation, and the SENSS doctoral training partnership.
If you are interested in applying for a PhD or postdoctoral research study with the Centre, please contact Centre Director Professor Anna Tarrant to make initial enquiries.


Caregiving Dads, Breadwinning Mums | Innovation in Fatherhood and Family Research | University of LincolnCaregiving Dads, Breadwinning Mums
Transforming Gender in Work and Childcare
Modern parents want to do things differently, but parental leave policies make it hard to share care, a new study has found.
Caregiving dads, breadwinning mums: Transforming gender in work and childcare, a major mixed-methods study funded by the Nuffield Foundation, compared couples in which childcare responsibilities are shared equally, or assumed primarily by the father, with more traditional arrangements.
Drawing on survey data from a nationally representative sample of British parents, as well as in-depth interviews with couples with young children, the study found that:
Professor Ruth Gaunt from the research team said: Current parenting leave policies restrict couples choices and steer them into a traditional division of family roles despite their beliefs, preferences, and parenting arrangements.u202fParents want to see more part time and flexible working and leave policies and childcare that enable both parents to return to work after parenting leave.
Dr Mary-Ann Stephenson, Director of the Womens Budget Group, added: We know that modern parents want to do things differently, sharing responsibility for care and earning more equally with their partners. This study shows that too many feel pushed into a split between breadwinner or carer by out of date leave policies, lack of flexible work and inadequate childcare.
Unpaid care is at the heart of womens economic inequality. Women do 60 per cent more unpaid care than men, meaning they have less time for paid work, so they earn less, own less and are more likely to be poor. This can be changed through leave policies, flexible work, and childcare that reflect parents wishes and would be better for children.
You can download the full report from the Nuffield Foundation website.
Read more about the project on our blog site.


Publications | Violence in Society Research Group | University of LincolnPublications
Recent Publications
Cayli Messina, B. (ed.) (2023). Environmental Injustice and Catastrophe: How Global Insecurities Threaten the Future of Humanity. Boston and Berlin: De Gruyter.
Cayli Messina, B. (2022) "Breaking the Silence on Femicide: How Women Challenge Epistemic Injustice and Male Violence". The British Journal of Sociology73(4): 859-884.
Cayli Messina, B. (2021) "The Global History of Social Dissent: Deconstructing Outlaws within the Conundrum of Crime, Conflict, and Violence". Journal of Historical Sociology 34(3): 406-423.
Cayli Messina, B. (2020) "The Cultural Anthropology of Protest against Perceived Injustice" Anthropological Notebooks26(1): 1-12
Ellis, A. (2022) Tick, Tock, Boom! A Critical Forecast on Violence in Post-Pandemic UK. Journal of Contemporary Crime, Harm and Ethics2(1), 24-41. https://doi.org/10.19164/jcche.v2i1.1236
Ellis, A. Telford, L. Lloyd, A. Briggs, D. (2021) For the Greater Good: Sacrificial Violence and the Coronavirus Pandemic. Journal of Contemporary Crime, Harm and Ethics 1(1), 1-22.
Ellis, A. Briggs, D. Lloyd, A. Telford, L. (2021) A ticking time bomb of future harm: Lockdown, child abuse and future violence. Abuse: An International Impact Journal Vol 2, Issue 1, pp. 37-48
Price, H. (2023) Between Involuntary Celibacy and Incel: Outlining a Worldview. In Toxic Masculinity: Men, Meaning, and Digital Media, edited by John Mercer and Mark McGlashan, 38-55. London: Routledge.
Price, H. (2024) Anti-Feminism as Anti-Establishment and Emancipatory: The Gendered Metapolitics of Incel. Feminist Media Studies (Forthcoming Special Issue).
Tarrant, A., Pierce, N., Horner, G., Ladlow, L. and Way, L. (2023) Theorising young fathers: the social problems and social engagement frameworks, FYFF Findings and Innovation Series 2020-24, Report 2.
Ladlow, L., Tarrant, A. Way, L., Horner, G. and Pierce, N. (2023) Father-inclusion and welfare systems in the UK and Sweden: Learning from an international comparative study of young fatherhood, FYFF Findings and Innovation Series 2020-24, Report 7.
Tarrant, A., Ladlow, L., Way, L., Pierce, N. and Horner, G. (2023) Conclusion: Learning from co-creating father-inclusive practice and research with young fathers and multi-agency professionals, FYFF Findings and Innovation Series 2020-24, Report 8.
Tarrant, A., Ladlow, L., Way, L., Horner, G. and Pierce, N. (2023) Co-creating father-inclusive practice and research: Findings and innovations from Following Young Fathers Further, FYFF Findings and Innovation Series 2020-24, Report 1.
Tarrant, A., Ladlow, L., Way, L., Horner, G., and Pierce, N. (2023) Defining and Becoming Father-Inclusive: an empirically driven agenda, FYFF Findings and Innovation Series 2020-24, Report 3.


Group Members | Violence in Society Research Group | University of LincolnGroup Members
Members of the Violence in Society Research Group
Dr Anthony Ellis
Dr Danilo Freire
Dr Baris Cayli Messina
Dr Bethany Elce
Dr Kim Reising
Dr Alex Oaten
Senior Lecturer in Criminology
Nicki Pierce
Dr Henry Price


Violence in Society Research Group | Research | University of LincolnViolence in Society Research Group
Our Research
The Violence in Society Research Group is comprised of academics and postgraduate students from across the University who are researching violence in its various forms. The group maintains a comprehensive approach to the study of violence to ensure recognition of its interpersonal, symbolic, and structural nature.
The causes of violence are diverse, requiring interdisciplinary collaboration to develop enhanced understanding. The group adopts an interdisciplinary approach to bring together different perspectives on violence and to work towards developing more effective responses to support victims and address perpetration.
Background
While some recorded measures of violent crimes indicate a recent decline in the level of violence in some countries, such as the UK and USA, the United Nations states that the number of recorded homicides is increasing in some other parts of the world, while gender-based attacks are reportedly increasing globally. UNICEF found recently that considerable numbers of children and adolescents from across the globe are victims of violence or live with a mother who is a victim of intimate partner violence.
UNICEF states that experiencing violence undermines childrens sense of self-worth and hinders their development, while a substantial body of evidence links experiences of violence in childhood with a range of poor health outcomes in adulthood. The negative consequences of violence for the mental and physical wellbeing of those who are affected, directly and indirectly, are considerable and present a variety of challenges for health and justice services globally.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
s most pressing problems, now and into the future.", 'Supporting Our Researchers
Through a series of regular activities, the group provides a supportive and collaborative environment for researchers. The University possesses a strong track record of conducting research on different forms of violence, including violence between and affecting young people, gender-based violence, suicide, and political violence.
The Violence in Society Research Group seeks to capitalise on the productive research relationships that exist across Schools at the University, providing a supportive, intellectually stimulating forum that allows researchers and postgraduate students to connect and collaborate.
Discover More
Current Projects
Discover more about the projects undertaken by members of the Violence in Society Research Group.
Explore Our Projects
Centre Members
View the current list of members of the Violence In Society Research Group.
List of Members
Publications
View a list of recent publications written by members of the Violence in Society Research Group.
Read the Publications


Current Projects | Violence in Society Research Group | University of LincolnCurrent Projects
Ongoing Research Projects
Below is a list of current research projects by members of the Violence in Society Research Group.

Project Title: Homicide Prevention in Lincolnshire
Funder: Home Office
Partner: Lincolnshire Police
Academic Staff:Dr Anthony Ellis, Dr Lauren Smith, Prof Todd Hogue, Dr Sue Bond-Taylor, Dr Carina OReilly

Project Title: Fear and perceptions of safety amongst children aged 11-16 in Lincolnsh
Funder: Lincolnshire OPCC
Partners:Lincolnshire Police, Lincolnshire Serious Violence Core Priority Group
Academic Staff: Dr Anthony Ellis, Dr Sue Bond-Taylor

Project Title: Trapped in the Margins: How Criminalisation and Violence Destroy a Diverse Europe
Funder:Max Planck Institute
Partner: International Rescue Committee
Academic Staff: Dr Baris Cayli Messina

Project Title: Discovering Liveability: Co-Producing Alternatives to Suicide Prevention
Funder: Wellcome Trust
Partners:Mind, Edinburgh University
Academic Staff:Dr Alex Oaten, Dr Ana Jordan


