School of Sport and Exercise Science | College of Health and Science | University of LincolnSchool of Sport and Exercise Science
Welcome to the School of Sport and Exercise Science
Welcome
Our School is noted for its cutting-edge facilities and provides an educational experience within an enthusiasticand supportive environment. Programmes are available across a range of sport-related subjects. Our teaching is underpinned by scientific research and u200cscholarship,making use of the excellent facilities which support laboratory projects and field investigations. Excellent links exist between the School and industry and professional practices, which offer varied opportunities for work experience within the community.u200c
Cathy Thomas
Head of School

Undergraduate Courses
Undergraduate degree programmes available at the School of Sport and Exercise Science.
Undergraduate Courses
Postgraduate Programmes
Postgraduate taught and research courses available at the School of Sport and Exercise Science.
Postgraduate Courses
Research
Research within the School of Sport and Exercise Science.
Research
Facilities and Sports Centre
You can make the most of our specialist sports facilities during your studies.
Facilities
School Staff
Staff within the School of Sport and Exercise Science.
School Staff
View Our Scholarships
The Lincoln Sports Scholarship has been established to support up to ten athletes studying per year.
Scholarship
Consultancy
Using our expertise and applied research, we offer a range of evidence-based services aimed to help athletes, businesses and the community to reach their performance, health, research and wellbeing goals.
Sport and Exercise Science at Lincoln
Find out more about studying with the School of Sport and Exercise Science

Human Performance Centre Guided Tour
Human Performance Centre manager Simon George takes us round the facilities and highlights some of the equipment new students in the School of Sport and Exercise are able to use when they start their course.

Contact Us
College of Health and ScienceUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 cohsenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk


Youth Sport Research | Research | University of LincolnExploring Youth Sport and PE Experiences
Our multidisciplinary research group seeks to examine the sport and physical education experiences of young people. 
A key aspect of our work is to develop theoretical understanding of this area in order to inform and shape current practice within youth sport and school settings.


School of Sport and Exercise Science Research Groups
Wellbeing
Exploring interdisciplinary research into a range of embodiment and identity issues in health, sport, and physical activity social contexts.
Performance
The PerformanceResearch Group aims to apply and understand biofeedback in order to enhance the sporting performance of humans.


Postgraduate Programmes | School of Sport and Exercise Science | University of Lincoln


Performance | Research | University of LincolnEnhancing Sport Performance
The Biofeedback In Sport Research Group aims to apply and understand biofeedback in order to enhance the sporting performance of humans. 
Ever-increasing capabilities in sports technology allows the study of human movement, or biomechanics, to investigate how humans and other living organisms are able to achieve and improve their movement.
There are many approaches to understanding biomechanics, but a particular specialism of our group is to use biofeedback. This involves measuring the movement of humans in real-time and the movement data generated can be instantaneously fed back to the performer. The data generated can be simple and complex so we investigate the most suitable and effective way to utilise this information so that the biofeedback can be properly understood in order to improve technique.
Academic Staff
Dr Sandy Willmott
Senior Lecturer
Dr Tom Gee
Senior Lecturer
Senior Lecturer
Doctoral Students
Brett M Still
Recentoutputs
The effect of a 10-week complex training programme, utilising optimal PAP recovery duration, on the sprint, power and agility capabilities of elite academy footballers
The Full Monty: a collaborative institutional approach to student engagement
Producing employable graduates in sport: maximising the benefits of volunteering
Virtual sports governance: a figurational analysis of social network development and transformation during the Workplace Challenge online programme
An evaluation of Lincolnshire Sports Workplace Challenge physical activity programme
Reproducibility of speed, agility and power assessments in elite academy footballers
The effect of plyometric training on handspring vault performance in adolescent female gymnasts
The effects of playground markings on the physical self-perceptions of 10-11 year-old school children
The importance of parents and teachers as stakeholders in school-based healthy eating programs
Effectiveness of a sport-specific resistance and plyometric training programme: The case of an elite under-19 junior badminton player

Former Para-athlete Kelda Wood on Working with Lincoln's Human Performance Centre
s Human Performance Centre in preparation for her attempt to solo row the Atlantic from east to west. She is the first solo-adaptive person to ever attempt this crossing and only the 6th ever solo female. Kelda linked her campaign to the Climbing Out charity and aimed to raise awareness, raise funds, and raise hope for young people facing life-changing challenges.", 'School of Sport and Exercise Science Research Groups
Wellbeing
Exploring interdisciplinary research into a range of embodiment and identity issues in health, sport, and physical activity social contexts.
Connect Online:


Undergraduate Courses | School of Sport and Exercise Science | University of Lincoln


PESP | Research | University of LincolnEnhancing Psychophysiological Performance In Young People
Our group undertakes research in a number of areas linked to the psychophysiological enhancement of health, exercise, and sport performance in young people. A central theme of our work is to establish the interaction between psychological states and physiological function, particularly within the realm of exercise adherence, maintenance, and enhancement.
Increasing our understanding of the experiences of young people in sport and the physical education (PE) environment allows us to plan, construct, and deliver more relevant, inclusive, and meaningful sport and physical education. This can be used to inform policy and practice to improve the quality of provision and increase the potential for PE and sport to positively impact on children throughout their life.

Academic Staff
DrMark F Smith
Principal Lecturer
DrThomas Gee
Lecturer
MrsMistrelle Ellmore
Senior Lecturer
MrGeoff Middleton
MrPaul Murgatroyd
Research PGs
Daniel Taylor
James McCarron
Research Publications
Effect of acute mild dehydration on cognitive-motor performance in golf
Effect of deceptively aggressive bike pacing on sprint-distance triathlon performance
Effects of deceptive running speed on physiology, perceptual responses, and performance during sprint-distance triathlon
Scalar-linear increases in perceived exertion are dissociated from residual physiological responses during sprint-distance triathlon
Effects of residual fatigue on pace regulation during sprint-distance triathlon running
Reliability of performance and associated physiological responses during simulated sprint-distance triathlon
Physiological correlates of simulated sprint-distance triathlon
Reliability of simulated sprint-distance triathlon
Supervised exercise training as an adjunctive therapy for venous leg ulcers: study protocol for a randomised controlled.

School of Sport and Exercise Science Research Groups
Wellbeing
Exploring interdisciplinary research into a range of embodiment and identity issues in health, sport, and physical activity social contexts.
Performance
The PerformanceResearch Group aims to apply and understand biofeedback in order to enhance the sporting performance of humans.
Connect Online:


Research | School of Sport and Exercise Science | University of LincolnResearch

PerformanceResearch Group
The Performancegroup aims to explorefundamental and applied sport science research to enhance sport performance...
Read More



Wellbeing Research Group
Explores issues influencing health, exercise, sport and physical activity...
Read More


Human Performance Centre Labs
The Human Performance Centre is used by theSchool of Sport and Exercise Science and these specialist laboratories feature modern equipment in order to undertake physiological and biomechanical assessments.
The labs are equipped for both the teaching of students, academic research, and also outside consultancy with businesses and elite athletes. The equipment used ranges from treadmills and ergometers, through to gas and lactate measuring equipment, motion detection, impact analysis, and an endless pool.
The labs are located in the same building as the university sports centre, where the School of Sport and Exercise Science is also based, and are available as learning environments for students on the Health and Exercise Science, Physical Education and Sport, Sport and Exercise Science, Sport Development and Coaching, Strength and Conditioning in Sport, Sport Science, and Sport Therapy courses.


Student Success | School of Sport and Exercise Science | University of LincolnStudent Success


Wellbeing | Research | University of LincolnExploringissues influencing health, exercise, sport and physical activity
TheWellbeing Research Groupexplores interdisciplinary research into a range of embodiment and identity issues in health, sport, and physical activity social contexts.
We conduct fundamental and applied multi-disciplinary research that aims to develop understanding of identity and embodiment in a range of health, education, and body-related domains including informing policy and practice in healthcare, nutrition, education, and physical cultural settings.
The group undertakes research in areas such as:
Our focus is understanding the ways in which individuals and social groups experience and give meaning to embodied experiences, such as physical activity, health, and illness conditions is central to developing effective policy and practice to take into account peoples everyday lives.

Academic Staff
ProfJacquelyn Allen-Collinson
Professor Emerita
DrHannah Henderson
Associate Professor
Dr Patricia Jackman
Associate Professor
Dr Hanya Pielichaty
Associate Professor
Doctoral Students
Dona Hall
Georgia Clay
Rebecca Hawkins
Oliver Williamson
Recent Publications
Allen-Collinson, Jacquelyn and Owton, Helen and Crust, Lee (2016)Opening up dialogues and airways: using vignettes to enrich asthma understandings in sport and exercise. Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise & Health. ISSN 2159-676X
Evans, Adam and Bishop, Daniel and Middleton, Geoff and Carter, Alice (2016)Personal goals, group performance and social networks: participants negotiation of virtual and embodied relationships in the Workplace Challenge physical activity programme. Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise and Health. ISSN 2159-676X
Evans, Adam B. and Allen-Collinson, Jacquelyn and Williams, Rachel K. (2016) Risky bodies, risky spaces, maternal instincts: swimming and motherhood. International Review for the Sociology of Sport. ISSN 1012-6902
Mitchell, Stacey and Allen-Collinson, Jacquelyn and Evans, Adam (2016)Ladies present!: an auto/ethnographic study of women amateur golfers at an English provincial golf club. Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise & Health. ISSN 2159-676X
Evans, A. B. and Allen-Collinson, J. (2016)From just a swimmer to a swimming mother: womens embodied experiences of recreational aquatic activity with pre-school children.Leisure Studies, 35 (2). pp. 141-156. ISSN 0261-4367
Allen-Collinson, Jacquelyn and Hockey, John (2016)Intercorporeal enaction and synthrony: the case of distance-running.In: Intercorporeal and interkinesthetic enaction in sports. John Benjamins Publishing, Amsterdam. ISBN
Connolly, Daniel J. and Allen-Collinson, Jacquelyn and Evans, Adam (2016)A level playing field? A Bourdieusian analysis of the career aspirations of further education students on sports courses. Sport, Education & Society. ISSN 1357-3322
Owton, Helen and Allen-Collinson, Jacquelyn (2016)Conformers, contesters, creators: vignettes of asthma identities and sporting embodiment. International Review for the Sociology of Sport. ISSN 1012-6902
Hockey, John and Allen-Collinson, Jacquelyn (2015)Digging in: the sociological phenomenology of doing endurance in distance-running.In: Endurance running: a socio-cultural examination. Routledge Research in Sport, Culture and Society (51). Routledge, London / New York, pp. 227-242. ISBN 9781138810426
It gives me my freedom: technology and responding to bodily limitations in Motor Neuron Disease.Medical Anthropology, 34 (5). pp. 442-455. ISSN 0145-9740", 'School of Sport and Exercise Science Research Groups
Performance
The PerformanceResearch Group aims to apply and understand biofeedback in order to enhance the sporting performance of humans.
Connect Online:


Facilities | School of Sport and Exercise Science | University of LincolnHuman Performance Centre Labs
The Human Performance Centre is used by the School of Sport and Exercise Science and these specialist laboratories feature modern equipment in order to undertake physiological and biomechanical assessments.
The labs are equipped for both the teaching of students, academic research, and also outside consultancy with businesses and elite athletes. The equipment used ranges from treadmills and ergometers, through to gas and lactate measuring equipment, motion detection, impact analysis, and an endless pool.
The labs are located in the same building as the University Sports Centre, where the School of Sport and Exercise Science is also based, and are available as learning environments for students on the Health and Exercise Science, Physical Education and Sport, Sport and Exercise Science, Sport Development and Coaching, Strength and Conditioning in Sport, Sport Science, and Sport Therapy courses.
Accessing facilities:
Unlike some other universities, our students can use all of the facilities from the first year of their course.
Support using the facilities:
Our Human Performance Centre is well supported by fourspecialist technicians who actively assist within laboratory classes and support students who can book laboratory time for independent study.

View our interactive photo tour
u200c
Human Performance Centre
Learn more about the Human Performance Centre's facilities as well as the consultancy services offered by the team
Sports Centre
The Human Performance Centre is located within the Sports Centre.
Students studying with the School of Sport and Exercise Science will benefit from the Sports Centre facilities, which include:
Find out more
Students can access additional facilities within easy reach ofLincoln, they include a swimming pool and athletics track.
u200c


School Staff | School of Sport and Exercise Science | University of LincolnSchool of Sport and Exercise Science Staff
School of Sport and Exercise Science Staff


