What&rsquo;s On? | Student Life | University of LincolnDiscover Events
The University of Lincoln hosts a wide range of events throughout the year, right here on campus. With a host of entertainments venues showcasing the best in live music, comedy, theatre, and a packed schedule of University events, there should be plenty to keep you entertained.
On-Campus Venues
Engine Shed
The Engine Shed is Lincoln's largest live music and entertainments venue and has hosted music acts as varied as Kings of Leon, Human League, and Ben Howard, as well as comedians Sarah Millican, Jason Manford, and Jimmy Carr. 
Lincoln Arts Centre
Lincoln Arts Centre is the University's public arts centre which hosts contemporary performances throughout the year by students and professional companies.
Students' Union
The University of Lincoln Students' Union is an independent charity organisation that puts the student experience at the heart of everything they do. They host events such as student club nights, quizzes, and live music.
Upcoming University Events
s: Accounting and Finance (online)", 'View full event details
Postgraduate Funding Advice Session
View full event details
s: Events Management", 'View full event details


Commuting to Campus | Student Life | University of LincolnOptions for Commuting to University
You can still enjoy being part of our campus community and live at home, with plenty of convenient options for students to commute into university.
 walk from Lincoln Central Train Station which is connected to major cities across the East Midlands and beyond, including daily direct services to London.", "Lincoln Transport Hub, which includes the city's central bus station and a 1,000-space multi-storey car park, is close by too, opposite the train station and on the edge of the city's bustling Cornhill Quarter.", 'Students can save money on rail travel with a 16-25 Railcard. Discounts are available for mature students too. To buy a railcard, visit: https://www.16-25railcard.co.uk/. Stagecoach East Midlands provides MegaRider discounted bus tickets which cover Lincoln and many surrounding villages.
The University also offers a Commuting Travel Grant for eligible students from areas of Lincolnshire and North Lincolnshire to help cover travel costs. Find out more about travel grants on our Student Services microsite.
There are many cycle routes connecting Lincoln with surrounding towns and villages and secure bike storage units are located around campus. The University also operates a cycle hire scheme.
re in Lincoln, there's little need for a car unless you're undertaking placements as part of your course. There is no on-campus car parking for students during the day at the Brayford Pool Campus with some exceptions, for example if you are a Blue Badge Holder. Students can apply for a parking permit for evenings and weekends. There are numerous pay-and-display car parks located close to campus, many offering season ticket discounts.", 'A Great City
One of the worlds great historic cities, Lincoln is renowned for its fusion of old and new. The winning combination of a vibrant city centre and a historic Cathedral Quarter, both offering a rich variety of attractions, activities, and amenities, makes Lincoln a fantastic place in which to live and study.
Getting Around Lincoln
Familiarise yourself with the city and its transport links, University building locations, and see how to get around our beautiful Brayford Pool Campus on foot with one of our handy maps. 


Your Future Career | Student Life | University of LincolnKick-start Your Career at Lincoln
Preparing you for your future career in the global graduate jobs market shapes your student experience from the day that you enrol. Alongside our industry-engaged approach to teaching, we have a dedicated, award-winning Careers team to support you throughout your time at Lincoln and beyond.
Lincoln graduates have gone on to secure jobs at major companies and organisations around the world, including the BBC, Rolls-Royce, Siemens, Boots, GSK, Lloyds Bank, and Rockstar Games.
Careers and Employability Team
At the University of Lincoln, our dedicated and award-winning team of employability and careers professionals are here to help you develop the knowledge, skills, confidence, and experience needed to kick-start your chosen career.
Supporting Our Students
Our Careers and Employability Team is here to support you throughout your time with us and after you graduate. They are on hand to oer support and advice, answering your queries and helping you to develop practical employment skills. The team runs regular workshops and fairs to ensure students are prepared for future employment.
Individual Guidance
Each school has a dedicated Careers Advisor and one-to-one appointments are available to support students as they explore their career options and gain industry specific knowledge. Advisors are also on-hand through daily drop in sessions which can develop practical skills, such as creating a CV and preparing for interviews.
Register for Opportunities
Students can sign up to receive updates on student employment, work placement, and graduate-level opportunities with a range of regional, national, and global organisations through our vacancy platform CareerLinc. Here, students can also access the Campus Jobs service to gain part-time work to fit around their studies. 
Industry Links
The University is recognised as setting a blueprint for excellence in industry engagement through its pioneering approach to working with employers. Our unique relationships with companies such as Siemens Energy, the Lincolnshire Co-operative, and Santander demonstrate our innovative industry-engaged approach. This has been acknowledged through a series of national awards over the past decade, including a prestigious Lord Stafford Award (2011), a Times Higher Education Award (2012), and the Association of Graduate Careers Advisory Service Employer Engagement Award (2016).

Placement Opportunities
Some students choose to undertake a full-time work placement year during their course to gain direct industry experience. Fees are not charged for a work placement year, but students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Guest Speakers
In addition to the expertise of our academic teams, students at the University may also have the chance to learn from visiting staff who are well-known and respected in their industries and professions. This provides the opportunity for students to gain insight into a range of career paths and job roles. Through our annual How to get a graduate job with event series, students can meet representatives of the UK's 300 top graduate employers, who offer information and advice on their recruitment processes.
Informed Teaching
Many of our courses are designed to produce graduates with the skills and experiences required to meet the needs of industry. The University often engages with industry experts to address specific skills gaps by launching new programmes, or pursues cutting-edge research to solve real-world challenges.
Development Opportunities
Students can get involved in a range of extracurricular and co-curricular activities to fit around their core studies at Lincoln. These provide the opportunity to learn and develop new skills while boosting employability.
Extracurricular and Co-Curricular Activities
These may include employability mentoring via our platform Lincoln Connect, which pairs students with professionals from our network of employers; our Careers and Employability workshops, taking place throughout the year which support students to build employability skills; and our employer-partnered projects which offer an opportunity to take part in real-world challenges set by employers.
The Lincoln Award
The Lincoln Award is an employability framework built around the benefits of extracurricular activity which is run by the Universitys Careers and Employability Service. It enables students to acquire transferable skills to complement those developed on their academic course by completing a series of chosen activities. Students completing the award are expected to have developed employability skills and learned how to demonstrate these to employers. 
Language Courses
Students looking to further enhance their skill set in an increasingly globalised economy can also take advantage of language courses offered by our Lincoln International Business School. These include French, German, Spanish, Italian, and Mandarin Chinese. A cost is associated with these courses.
Graduation and Beyond
As a graduate of the University of Lincoln you can continue to access careers support via the University for up to three years after finishing your studies, helping you establish your chosen career path. You can benefit from one-to-one careers support, including CV advice and help with interview preparation.
You can also join our global Alumni Network  a family of almost 100,000 former Lincoln students located all over the world. Many successful alumni return to share their experiences with current students and recent graduates.
If you have ambitions to start your own business, the Universitys on-campus business incubation centre, Sparkhouse, has helped hundreds of graduate start-ups over the years. It provides access to business support services, funding advice, training events and networking, and affordable, flexible business premises to help you turn your concept into reality.
Careers and Employability
T: +44 (0)1522 837828E: careers@lincoln.ac.ukW:http://uolcareers.co.uk/


Comedy Picnic | Summer Festival | University of LincolnEnd the Summer Festival with a Smile
As our Summer Festival of Learning draws to a close, were inviting our staff and students to join us for a final social event featuring live music, dance, and conversation to mark the end of what has been a challenging year for everyone.
The event takes place on Thursday 29 July at the SKAL Tipi on campus, and youll be able to enjoy a comedy stand-up performance by Mark Watson, one of the UKs most notable comedians, authors, and sports pundits who has appeared on popular TV shows including Mock the Week, Have I Got News For You, Never Mind the Buzzcocks, and Taskmaster.
There will also be performances and music from our dance and drama students  all complemented with a picnic box filled with sandwiches, scones, and treats from Lincolnshire.
Connect With Us on Social Media


Supportive Community | Student Life | University of LincolnSupport at Lincoln
Here to Support You Every Step of the Way
s important to know that you're not alone and that we're here to support you through every step of your journey with us.", 'At Lincoln, we offer a host of support services that span a wide range of areas from mental health and expert advice in money matters, to guidance in academic writing and preparing for your rst graduate job interview. Our Student Support Centre brings many of these services together, providing a central point of contact that can link you with the appropriate team. We also have dedicated multi-faith chaplaincy to support you throughout your time with us.
If you have any questions about the support we offer or have any specific needs you would like to discuss with us before you apply to Lincoln, why not speak to our friendly team at an Open Day or one of our on-campus events.
We connect all our students with a personal tutor
Specialist support from our professional Student Wellbeing and Advice Service teams
On-campus University Health Service providing convenient GP access
Dedicated Residence Life Team support in our University-managed accommodation
Health and Wellbeing
Taking care of your mental wellbeing and physical health are hugely important in order to get the most out of your time at Lincoln.
Wellbeing Support Services
Experienced Wellbeing Advisors
We understand that as a student there can often be many different priorities to juggle such as your academic work, social life, independent study, part-time work, and more. It is incredibly important that you are looking after your health and wellbeing in the process. 
Our experienced advisors are on-hand to support you with mental health, disabilities, specific learning differences, long-standing conditions, distressing life events, and much more. They can also help to make sure that reasonable adjustments are made to your studies if required.
On-campus Health Service
We know that it's not possible for everyone to travel home to access healthcare, which is why we have an on-campusUniversity Health Serviceproviding convenient GP access and other health support to our students and staff.
The Health Service is located at the heart of our Brayford Pool Campus, meaning you are never far from getting the help you need. You can register with the University Health Service as soon as you have enrolled at the University.
University Mental Health Charter
The University is committed to providing a high level of mental health support and was one of the first universities to join the Student Minds University Mental Health Charter Programme.
Julie Spencer MBE
Head of Student Wellbeing
Julie Spencer, Head of Wellbeing at the University of Lincoln, was named in the New Years Honours list 2024 for her services to education. She was awarded an MBE for being a constant champion of students and for her support of their physical and mental wellbeing.
 I am incredibly passionate about my career and I feel its essential our students receive the best possible support. Our team at Student Wellbeing always goes above and beyond, showing amazing levels of compassion. 
Living at University
Most of our students have never lived away from home before. With this new experience at university comes new challenges, but our expert advice teams at Lincoln are here to make sure that you get the support and advice you need throughout your studies.
The Student Advice Team is an independent service located within the Student Support and Advice Centre. They offer a free confidential and impartial legal service to all students at the University of Lincoln. Advice covers a wide range of areas including finances, housing, employment, university issues such as interruption and extenuating circumstances, and much more.
In addition to the support available within the University, the Students' Union offers their own independent advice service.
Academic Support
We offer a wealth of helpful information and advice covering all aspects of academic support, from managing your studies and guidance in relation to university issues, to learning support tools and personalised academic study support.
Academic Support
Financial and Cost of Living Support
Our specialist advisors are available to give professional, confidential, and impartial advice to all students. We have also created a dedicated Cost of Living Hub which provides a range of helpful information and advice on how to help you manage your finances.
Financial Support
Residence Life
We understand that moving away from home for the first time can seem daunting. To ease your transition to university and settle you in to your new place, our friendly Residence Life Team are here to help you make the most of your new home at Lincoln so that it can become so much more than just a place to study. 
Residence Life
Support for International Students
Studying in another country can be challenging, from communicating in a new language and adapting to different ways of learning, to making new friends and socialising. We have lots of support available to our overseas students to help them settle-in.
Preparing for Your Career
Our Careers and Employability Team is here to support you throughout your time with us and beyond. They are on hand to oer individual support and advice, answering your queries and helping you to develop practical employment skills, such as building your CV and preparing for interviews. They can support you in the search for placements and work experience, part-time jobs, and full-time employment after graduating.
A variety of employability advice and support workshops are delivered during the academic year, along with a range of events such as the annual University of Lincoln Careers Fair and employer sessions, which give students the opportunity to engage with top graduate recruiters from across many industry areas.
Keeping You Safe
Everybody deserves to feel safe, and our 24/7 Security Team are here to help if you should need them. We also have a dedicated campus Police Liaison Officer whocan offer advice around any issues you may have involving crime and safety.
Contact Us
University of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk
 01522886644 


Sport at Lincoln | Student Life | University of LincolnSport at Lincoln
Get Active and Make Friends
re studying a sport-related discipline or looking for ways to enjoy your leisure time, a great way to meet fellow students and make lasting friendships is to join one of the many societies and sports clubs offered by the Students Union. Many of our sports teams take part in local and national competitions including British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) fixtures.", "The University's on-campus Sports Centre provides access to an array of facilities including five-a-side football pitches, squash and basketball courts, hockey pitches, and trampolines, and the centre also offers a range of fitness classes tailored to all abilities, a dance studio, and a well-equipped gym with termly memberships on offer.", 'Sports Clubs and Societies
Our Students Union has more than 100 sports clubs and societies for students to join. Each year, thousands of students get involved, gaining valuable experience in problem solving and organisational skills by becoming part of a sports committee. Students can compete in inter-university British Universities & Colleges Sport (BUCS) tournaments in a wide range of sports, including lacrosse, football, rowing, and hockey.
University Sports Centre
The University of Lincoln Sports Centre is located on our Brayford Pool Campus. Offering an extensive range of facilities, the Sports Centre is a hub of activity to keep you healthy and active throughout your time at university. We cater for all levels and abilities in each area of our facility, including the fitness suites, sports hall, football pitches, dance, boxing, and spin studios.
Sports Scholarships
If you are a talented sportsperson, you could benefit from a University of Lincoln Sports Scholarship to help you further your sporting achievements alongside your academic study. Applications for the scholarship is open to all undergraduate and postgraduate students, with successful students receiving up to 1,000 each year. Successful students also receive free gym membership and sports science support services such as strength and conditioning, sports psychology, and sports nutrition.
More Information
Human Performance Centre
Our Human Performance Centre is a specialist facility for those studying the areas of sport and exercise physiology, biomechanics, psychology, and strength and conditioning. Housing specialist laboratory spaces containing cutting-edge equipment for the assessment and evaluation of human performance, the Centre enables sport students to engage in applied work and increase their practical experience.

Annual Varsity Competition
Originally called The Humber Games, the annual Varsity competition against the University of Hull is a highlight of the University sporting calendar. Each year over 1000 students across over 30 activities get involved, competing for the Varsity trophy. Now in its 8th year, Lincoln has proudly secured the trophy in each of the last six competitions!



Term Dates | Student Life | University of LincolnImportant Dates for Your Diary
Each course is different - some will haveplacements, coursework, assessments, dissertations or projects instead of examinations. These are the key dates for your diary throughout the academic year.
Students' individual timetables are available on the University of Lincolns virtual learning environmentBlackboard.
Key Term Dates 2023-24
Key Term Dates 2024-25
Which courses will be starting teaching earlier?
Some of our programmesmay start sooner than September due to professional requirements and practical placements. Applicants and continuing students on these programmes will be made aware if this is the case.


Student Life | Home | University of LincolnStudent Life
Your Student Experience
At the University of Lincoln, we aim to help you to achieve your full potential by providing an experience that is academically rigorous, creative, and engaging. We are proud of our reputation for providing a high-quality student experience underpinned by inspirational teaching.
 Union which provides a wealth of exciting opportunities to make friends and get involved.", 'Campus and Facilities
Set against the backdrop of a beautiful and historic city, the University of Lincoln sits at the heart of it all on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront, with almost everything youll need either on campus or just a short walk away.
Weve invested around 400 million in our Brayford Pool Campus over the last two decades to create the best possible learning environment and a strong foundation to help you achieve your goals. No matter which course you choose, we aim to provide you with high-quality facilities and the latest equipment.
Great Central Warehouse Library
The Universitys Great Central Warehouse Library gives you access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections. The library is open 24/7 at key times during the academic year, so is available when you need it most.
Isaac Newton Building
Computer science, engineering, and mathematics and physics students call the Isaac Newton Building their home. It oers access to workshops and computer laboratories, an electrical systems laboratory, and a biofuels laboratory. It also houses industry-standard machinery, turbines, and additional teaching and research laboratories. 
Sarah Swift Building
Our Sarah Swift Building is home to a range of clinical suites, designed to simulate hospital wards and home settings. You also have access to specialist psychology facilities, including a sleep laboratory, motor lab, and EEG laboratories.
Lincoln Arts Centre
Lincoln Arts Centre provides a hub of creative performance where students can learn and practise their art in the 450-seat professional working theatre, large industry-standard studio spaces, and a workshop for building sets and props.
Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building
Our brand-new, purpose-built Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building features lecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite with consultation rooms, a prosection anatomy suite, and a bio-medical and health sciences library.
The Lincoln Experience
You can gain so much more than a degree during your time at Lincoln  you can broaden your horizons, develop independence, and make lifelong friends and memories. Our Students Union puts you at the heart of student life at Lincoln. An independent organisation run on behalf of all University of Lincoln students, it offers representation, support, and a range of exciting activities and events to help make your time here a truly unforgettable experience.
The University also has a growing number of agreements with universities and partner institutions in Europe and around the world offering study abroad programmes.An international experience canboost your academic and personal development and help you gain a whole range of new skills, from problem solving to learning a new language.
Your Students' Union
The Students Union puts you at the heart of student life at Lincoln. It oers representation, support, and a range of exciting activities and events to help make your time here a truly unforgettable experience.
Our Students' Union
Global Opportunities
Each year, many of our students go abroad to study, work, or volunteer. Our carefully selected partner organisations from around the world offer a range of programmes, giving you the opportunity to create lifelong memories.
Global Opportunities
Our Inclusive Community
We are proud of our diverse and inclusive community of staff and students from around the world. Together with Lincolns Students Union and the Universitys Chaplaincy service, we celebrate important cultural events throughout the year, as well as religious festivals, Pride, and Black History Month.
Our One Community
Supporting Sustainability
The University of Lincoln is committed to tackling the climate crisis and promoting sustainability across activities. We run a range of initiatives which students can get involved to help us attain a more sustainable campus. These include our Edible Campus project, Hedgehog Friendly Campus initiative, our Climate Action Festival, and the annual Brayford Pool clean up.

Socialising and Events
Life on campus is not all about studying. Here at Lincoln, there are plenty of activities and amenities for you to enjoy when you are taking a break from the books.
The Students Union runs events throughout the year and operates several major on-campus venues which are popular hotspots for students during the day and at night. These include Towers, The Swan, and The Engine Shed, which is one of the regions largest live music and entertainment venues and has welcomed acts such as Kasabian, Paul Weller, Russell Howard, Joe Lycett, and Katherine Ryan.
When you are feeling peckish or want to grab a bite to eat with friends, you can visit one of the many different food and drink outlets on campus, offering everything from sandwiches and quick snacks to salads and hot meals.
 Explore Upcoming Events
On-campus Venues
Lincoln Arts Centre
Lincoln Arts Centre is a professional theatre which is part of a busy arts community. It hosts professional performances alongside student productions throughout the year.
The Engine Shed
s largest live entertainment venue with a host of regular and one off club nights, including the student favourite Quack!", 'The Pier Cafe
The Pier Cafe is located at the heart of our Brayford Pool Campus. Grab a snack and a coffee and catch up with friends between your lectures.
The Swan
The Swan is a homely pub in a prime location alongside the Brayford Pool for waterside food and drink for staff and students.
Towers
Towers is a hub of entertainment for students and staff. Enjoy food and drink whilst watching all your favourite sports and keep an eye out for events across the year!
Towers
Towers is a hub of entertainment for students and staff. Enjoy food and drink whilst watching all your favourite sports and keep an eye out for events across the year!
The Engine Shed
s largest live entertainment venue with a host of regular and one off club nights, including the student favourite Quack!", 'The Swan
The Swan is a homely pub in a prime location alongside the Brayford Pool for waterside food and drink for staff and students.
The Pier Cafe
The Pier Cafe is located at the heart of our Brayford Pool Campus. Grab a snack and a coffee and catch up with friends between your lectures.
Lincoln Arts Centre
Lincoln Arts Centre is a professional theatre which is part of a busy arts community. It hosts professional performances alongside student productions throughout the year.
Life in the City
Due to our fantastic location in the heart of Lincoln, you are just a short walk away from a range of restaurants, cafes, and bars that overlook the beautiful marina area and the eclectic mix of pubs and entertainment venues that are available in the city centre. Lincoln has also been ranked in the top 10 most affordable university cities in the UK in the NatWest Student Living Index 2023.
Get Active
re studying a sport-related discipline or looking for ways to enjoy your leisure time, a great way to meet fellow students and make lasting friendships is to join one of the many societies and sports clubs offered by the Students Union. Many of our sports teams take part in local and national competitions including British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS) fixtures.", 'Sports Clubs and Societies
Our Students Union has more than 100 sports clubs and societies for students to join. Each year, thousands of students get involved, gaining valuable experience in problem solving and organisational skills by becoming part of a sports committee. Students can compete in inter-university British Universities & Colleges Sport (BUCS) tournaments in a wide range of sports, including lacrosse, football, rowing, and hockey.
University Sports Centre
The University of Lincoln Sports Centre is located on our Brayford Pool Campus. Offering an extensive range of facilities, the Sports Centre is a hub of activity to keep you healthy and active throughout your time at university. We cater for all levels and abilities in each area of our facility, including the fitness suites, sports hall, football pitches, dance, boxing, and spin studios.
Support
At the University of Lincoln, we take great pride in placing our students at the heart of everything we do. We understand that leaving home, starting university, and embarking on your future career is a big step, but at Lincoln, its not one you have to take alone.
We offer a whole host of support services to span the entire student journey so that you can access the help you need, when you need it. From expert advice in money matters and mental health, to guidance in academic writing and preparing for your first graduate job interview, were here to help.
Student Support Centre
Our Student Support Centre, based on our Brayford Pool Campus, brings many of our support services together, providing a central point of contact that can link you with the appropriate team.
Student Support
Health and Wellbeing
As soon as you have enrolled at the University, you will be able to register with our on-campus Health Centre. You can also seek specialist advice from our Student Wellbeing Centre. The team includes student wellbeing advisors, mental health advisors, and counsellors.
Health and Wellbeing
Careers and Employability
Our Careers and Employability Team is here to support you throughout your time with us and beyond. They are on hand to offer individual support and advice, answering your queries and helping you to develop practical skills, such as building your CV and preparing for interviews. 
Careers Support
Chat to Our Students
re here to help!", 'Visit Us
The best way to find out what it is really like to live and learn at Lincoln is to visit us at one of our on-campus events. Exploring our campus and city for yourself will help you to get a real feel for what it might be like to study here.


Accommodation | Student Life | University of LincolnAccommodation at Lincoln
Your New Home from Home
At Lincoln, we understand that your university accommodation is so much more than just a place to live, and one of the many reasons our students love Lincoln is because they feel so at home with us.
All of our accommodation is either on campus or a short distance away, which means that almost everything you could need is right on your doorstep. So whether you are attending lectures and seminars, wanting to use our on-campus learning spaces and the library, or are heading into the city centre to grab a bite to eat and socialise with friends, its all just a few minutes walk from your new home.
re joining us as an undergraduate or postgraduate student, and our Accommodation Services Team is on hand throughout the year to help new and returning students find a great place to live.", 'Apply for Accommodation
September 2024 Bookings Now Open
Applications for accommodation are now open for September 2024. If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2024 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal.
Why Choose Our Accommodation
No deposit or down payment required to secure your room, and all bills included in your rent
Our accommodation has been awarded overall Global Student Living GOLD Certification by the Global Student Living Index 2023
Support from our Residence Life Team throughout your time living with us
Access to classes and workout space at our on-campus Sports Centre while living in our accommodation
Our Accommodation Guarantee
September 2024 Entry
ll never be far from the action.", '
Accommodation Options
One of the reasons why our students feel at home at Lincoln is the sense of community here. As well as offering well-equipped and contemporary rooms, our purpose-built accommodation includes great social spaces and communal areas where you can hang out, chat, and make new friends. We have a plentiful supply of purpose-built student accommodation, including residences managed directly by the University and others operated by established third party providers.
All ofour residences are managed following the Universities UK Code of Practice for the Management of Student Housing. For further information please visitwww.thesac.org.uk.
Gold Standard Accommodation
s condition and quality, bedrooms, value for money, care and support, recycling and environmental facilities, and overall management and internet.", '   
Cygnet Wharf
This modern development has been designed specifically for first-year students and is ideal for those who are living away from home for the first time.
Lincoln Courts
This waterfront complex boasts a range of beautiful views over Lincoln and is just a few minutes' walk from the city centre. 
Viking House
This modern accommodation offers students a traditional halls of residence experience in a modern setting.
179 High Street
This new accommodation complex provides a stunning range of fully furnished, en-suite rooms and studio apartments.
St Marks
St Marks is located minutes from the campus and city centre and has been designed with landscaped communal spaces for students to socialise in. 
Valentine Court
This townhouse-style development is under a ten-minute walk from our Brayford Pool Campus and comes with the convenience of permitted parking spaces, open to all residents of the property. 
Residence Life Team
s needed. They also arrange a variety of social activities that you can get involved in. ", 'University Gym Access
All students who book a University-managed room for September 2024 will also receive gym membership, with classes access, for the duration of their accommodation contract (40, 44, or 46 weeks). Our on-campus gym is located in the University Sports Centre, just a short walk away from our on-campus accommodation.
How to Apply
Applications for accommodation for 2024 entry are now open. Find out how to apply by following our simple step-by-step guide to choosing the right accommodation.
Find out More
360 Tour
Explore our 360 tour to get a feel for where all our accommodation is located in relation to the Campus and city centre sights. Based in the heart of Lincolns city centre, most student accommodation at the University is either on our Brayford Pool Campus or just a short distance away.
360 Tour
Accommodation Blog
Our Accommodation blogsite is a great way to learn more about the support on offer to our students living in University-managed housing. You can browse through a range of information about our available services. 
Read the Blog
The location is perfect; being on campus is ideal for getting to lectures. Settling in and making new friends could not have been easier due to the spacious communal areas.
Logan Baker,
Resident of Lincoln Courts
International Students
Our international pages offer guidance on accommodation if you are looking to join us from overseas. Lincoln is a fantastic place to live, work, and study and we are looking forward to welcoming you. Before you arrive in the UK, you must ensure you have arranged suitable accommodation, and that you are able to move into your room before the start of your course.
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


Health and Wellbeing Activities | Summer Festival | University of LincolnFeel at Your Best
Making time toprioritiseyour health and wellbeing can help you to reach your full potential andensuringyou have the opportunity to do so is of the utmost importance to us. Intrinsic to our caring and supportive values, there will be a selection of physical pursuits and health and wellbeing activities, all designed to help promote the wellbeing of our students.
ll be able to try your hand at cultivating herbs vegetables in the University's Kitchen Garden, practice the art of meditation, and explore your creative side with a crafting session. Stay tuned for details of the range of health, wellbeing and physical activity sessions available.", 'Health and WellbeingActivities Schedule
Catering activities - How to make the perfect latte
Catering activities - Basic knife skills
Catering activities - How to deseed a pepper and a chilli
Catering activities - How to cook rice with Chef Mark
Catering activities - How to use every part of a chicken with Chef Mark
Catering activities - How tocreate fakeaways at home with Chef Mark
Catering activities - How tomake an easy roast dinner with Chef Mark
Catering activities - How to cook potatoes with Chef Mark
Catering activities -Always eggs with Chef Mark
Catering activities - How to make batter with Chef Mark
Catering activities - Creating overnight oats with Chef Mark
Catering activities -How to chop tricky fruit and vegetables
Catering activities - Batch cooking with Chef Mark
Catering activities -How to decorate cupcakes with icing
Herb gardening. Interested in helping out in the Multi Faith Chaplaincy herb garden?
Contact the Chaplaincy atchaplaincy@lincoln.ac.uk
Free access to the University Sports Centre Gym: Just turn up with your student ID card
Stretch and Flex
Wellbeing World
Our online Wellbeing World magazine features articles, videos, advice, and handy guides to help you look after your wellbeing while studying at the University of Lincoln.
We know that being a student can be stressful, particularly during these challenging times. Our magazine is designed to remind you of the little things you can do to look after yourself.
Each month, the magazine covers a different theme and is full of mood-lifting ideas and tips to help you improve your wellbeing.
Read the Latest Edition

Sport at Lincoln
The Universitys Sports Centre offers opportunities for students to take part in sport and boasts a range of facilities including a fitness suite, sports hall, football pitches, dance studio and saunas, as well as courts for badminton, tennis, basketball, volleyball and netball.
In addition to taking part in sporting activities, the Lincoln Students Union currently has more than 130 sports clubs and societies for students to join. Each year thousands of students get involved, gaining valuable experience in problem solving and organisational skills by becoming part of a sports committee. Students can compete in inter-university British Universities Colleges Sport (BUCS) tournaments in a wide range of sports, including lacrosse, football, rowing and hockey.
Find out More


Graduation | Student Life | University of LincolnGraduation
Time to Celebrate
s calendar, marking the culmination of many years of hard work and dedication from our students, and giving family, friends, and staff at the University the opportunity to congratulate our new graduates and celebrate their achievements.", 'When you graduate from the University of Lincoln you will become part of our global alumni community, which is made up of more than 95,000 graduates from across 135 countries. As a graduate of the University, you can access a wide range of benefits and services wherever you are in the world.
Graduation Ceremonies 2024
s next graduation ceremonies will take place at Lincoln Cathedral between Tuesday 16thand Thursday 18thApril 2024.", 'To be eligible to attend the April 2024 graduations, a student must have:

Tuesday 16 April 2024
Wednesday 17 April 2024
Thursday 18 April 2024

To register, you will need your registration email, sent bygraduation@lincoln.ac.uk, with your personalised login details which will provide access to the online registration site at William Northam.
Fill in the details in the new customer box, then enter your university student ID (first 3 letters of your surname followed by your 8-digit ID), surname, and then your University email address (as noted in the invitation email).
Once you have created an account you will be able to amend your email address and other contact details by selecting the my details option. Please make a note of all login details, as you may need these for purchasing extra tickets in the future. The online site will allow you to register your place at the ceremony, book complimentary guest tickets, and organise gown hire.
A confirmation email will be sent to the email address you provide during registration as proof of your booking. This email address will be used to send future correspondence regarding the ceremony. Please ensure you fully complete the registration process and provide your correct details. If you do not receive the confirmation email, please log back in and check your booking.
Terms and Conditions
Please see our full Graduation Terms and Conditions April 2024.

If you do not wish to attend a graduation ceremony, or are unable to attend this ceremony, please contact us atgraduation@lincoln.ac.uk. If you have completed the registration process already, please also cancel your place and cancel your gown hire purchase with William Northam directly.
Please note that attendance at graduation is subject to the successful completion of your award and payment of any outstanding tuition fees.
Each graduand is guaranteed a ticket and two complimentary guest tickets to attend a ceremony when registering before the relevant deadline. Registration for our April 2024 ceremonies closes in early March 2024.
Your own ticket will have a seat number printed on it. You must sit in the seat allocated to you as it determines the order you will cross the stage during the ceremony. Your ticket will allow you admittance to the celebration reception and also contains a free drinks voucher, so please keep hold of it.
Ticket Email
Tickets willnotbe sent in the post. A ticket email will be sent to the email address provided during registration. This email will be sent after ticket sales have closed, and you will need to bring this email and photo ID with you to collect your tickets from the ticketing desk. Your ticket email will state what time you can collect your tickets, and where from.
For ticket enquiries, please contact the graduation team atgraduation@lincoln.ac.uk.
Terms and Conditions
Please see our full Graduation Terms and Conditions April 2024.
Each student can order two complimentary guest tickets only at the time of booking. Children under the age of three do not need to purchase a ticket but must be seated either in a pushchair or in a parent/carer lap.
Guest seating is not allocated. If your guests have any specific requirements (e.g. for health or mobility reasons), please make note of this in your booking via the William Northam booking site and the graduation team will assist where possible.
Terms and Conditions
Please see our full Graduation Terms and Conditions April 2024.
Extra Guest Tickets
Extra guest tickets over and above the complimentary guest tickets will be subject to availability. The number of extra tickets available for each registered graduand to purchase will be calculated for each ceremony after the initial registration has closed.
If extra tickets are available, these will be limited in number and sold on a first come first serve basis at a cost of 20 per ticket (including VAT). All graduands who have registered to attend a ceremony will be notified by email any details regarding extra tickets.
Please ensure you book your gown well in advance of your graduation date by visiting the gowning website (William Northam). Your gown will be collected on the day of your ceremony.
The link to hire your gown is:Mortarboard and Gown hire
The deadline to book your gown for the April 2024 ceremonies is 4th March 2024 at midday.
The dress code for the ceremony is smart. Remember that academic gowns do not hide what is worn underneath, so what you wear will be very visible to the entire congregation. Gowns are also more difficult to wear over very casual clothes as they do not sit well on the shoulders. Buttoned shirts are helpful for securing your gown hood and jackets help keep the gown in place. Your gown will slip if worn over silky fabric and very low-cut tops leave you with no means of keeping the hood in place. Please avoid jeans, trainers, casual sandals, open-necked shirts, T-shirts, and shorts as they are inappropriate for a formal graduation ceremony.
Finally, remember you will have to wear a mortar board, so take care that your hairstyle will allow you to do so.
Please note:It is a requirement that all Graduands attending their graduation ceremony wear the appropriate University of Lincoln academic dress.
10.30am Ceremony
All graduands must arrive between 8.00am and 9.30am.
On arrival, please go toLincoln Castle to collect your tickets and gown. There will also be an opportunity for photographs to be taken before the ceremony begins.
The doors to the Cathedral will open at 9.30am and the ceremony will begin at 10.30am.
All guests and graduandsMUSTbe seated by 10.00am.
Gowning and Photography
Gowns are to be collected from the Castle between 8.00am and 9.30am. Ushers will direct you upon arrival. All gowns must be returned by 1.00pm.
The official photographers will be taking photographs in the Castle from 8.00am to 9.30am before the ceremony and also after the ceremony. There is no need to pre-book any photography.
2.30pm Ceremony
All graduands must arrive between 12.00pm and 1.30pm.
On arrival, please go toLincoln Castle to collect your tickets and gown. There will also be an opportunity for photographs to be taken before the ceremony begins.
The doors to the Cathedral will open at 1.30pm and the ceremony will begin at 2.30pm.
All guests and graduandsMUSTbe seated by 2.00pm.
Gowning and Photography
Gowns are to be collected from the Castle between 12.00pm and 1.30pm. Ushers will direct you upon arrival. All gowns must be returned by 5.00pm.
The official photographers will be taking photographs in the Castle from 12.00pm to 1.30pm before the ceremony and also after the ceremony until 5.00pm. There is no need to pre-book any photography.
7.30pm Ceremony
All graduands must arrive between 5.00pm and 6.30pm.
On arrival, please go toLincoln Castle to collect your tickets and gown. There will also be an opportunity for photographs to be taken before the ceremony begins.
The doors to the Cathedral will open at 6.30pm and the ceremony will begin at 7.30pm.
All guests and graduandsMUST be seated by 7.00pm.
Gowning and Photography
Gowns are to be collected from the Castle between 5.00pm and 6.30pm. Ushers will direct you upon arrival. All gowns must be returned by 10.00pm.
The official photographers will be taking photographs in the Castle from 5.00 pm to 6.30pm before the ceremony and also after the ceremony until 9.30pm
Parking
The University does not provide parking for the graduation ceremonies. There are pay and display car parks near to the Cathedral and Castle that also have disabled parking bays. Please allow plenty of time to arrive in Lincoln and find a parking space before the ceremony begins, as these car parks can get busy and local roads may be busier than normal during graduation week.
You can find amap of car parks in Lincolnon the City of Lincoln Council's website(please note that the Castle Hill car park may be closed over the graduation period due to its location next to Lincoln Castle).
Registration
All students who wish to attend their graduation will be required to complete an online registration form. By completing the registration form you are consenting that the information collected can be used for graduation purposes and shared with appropriate departments within the University such as the Finance and Alumni teams. The information will not be disclosed to any third parties outside the University of Lincoln.
Graduation Ceremonies as a Public Event
The University of Lincolns graduation ceremonies are considered to be public events. This means that the names and award titles, but no classifications, of all graduands (including those graduating in absentia) are published in the official graduation brochure. In addition, the names of graduands will be provided to our external supplier for use on graduation products such as graduation t-shirts and hoodies. This does not include award titles or any other information.
Photography
The Universitys official photographers are Tempest Graduation Photography. They will be available in the Castle grounds before or after your ceremony.
VisitTempest Graduation Photographyto view packages and prices. Unfortunately, it is not possible to pre-order a photography package, but these can be ordered during and after your ceremony.
Filming
There will be a professional video recording taken of each graduation ceremony. This will be streamed on the University of Lincolns website. Graduates and guests seated in the Cathedral should be aware that they may appear on this recording.
After You Graduate
Gifts and Memorabilia

Graduation Certificates

University of Lincoln Alumni

Contact Us
University of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 graduation@lincoln.ac.uk
 +44 (0) 1522 886644


How to Apply | Accommodation | University of LincolnAccommodation
How to Apply
2024 Entry
ll be able to make your accommodation application using our online booking system. Every effort will be made to ensure that you are allocated accommodation from your preferred options, depending on demand.", 'It is important that you are fully aware of all the information regarding accommodation payments, deadline dates for applying, the details of the contract you will sign, and the associated costs you will be responsible for when renting accommodation.
Apply Now
Step 1: Register Online from 18 February
Register for our online application systemwhere you will need to enter personal details such as your first name, surname, and date of birth.These must match those held for you by UCAS for your registration to be successful. Once registered, you will receive a validation code via email which will enable you to log into the application system.You will also need your 8 digit University of Lincoln applicant ID.
Step 1:Apply from 4 March 2024
The Booking Portal for applicants who have firm accepted their course offer for 2024 entry is now open. You may need to allow up 24 hours after accepting your offer before submitting an accommodation application for our systems to update. You will need your 8-digit University of Lincoln Student ID, which you will have received in your academic offer. It is also included in the email alert you will receive notifying you that applications for accommodation are open.
Step 2: Choose Your Accommodation
Login and select the new application link in the top toolbar. You will then need to select the correct application type, course type, session, and pathway before you can browse the accommodation available. Choose your favourite four options, in preference order, by clicking theapply button beside your chosen development and then select the room type you would prefer. This allows us to see what other options you are interested in should your first choice be fully allocated due to demand.
The next page enables you to enter 'further details' where you can inform us of any special requirements. Unfortunately we cannot guarantee that we will be able to facilitate all requests. If you believe you have additional requirements due to a disability or medical condition that will affect your accommodation allocation, please email studentwellbeing@lincoln.ac.uk separately to your application.
Step 3: Review and Submit
submit'. You will then be taken to another screen where you will need to accept our terms and conditions before you are able to submit your application. The next screen will then confirm that you have successfully submitted your application.", 'Step 4: Receive Your Room Offer
Once you have submitted your application, you will then receive an offer of a room within three working days. You will have five days to accept this offer and sign the accommodation contract, by ticking a box within the Booking Portal. Please note that this offer will time out if it is not accepted within this time period.
Step 5: What Happens Next?
Details on your room allocation (block, apartment, and room number) will be communicated via email following A Level results day. Until then, you do not need to do anything further.
Universities UK Housing Code
Accommodation at the University of Lincoln fully complies with the new standard for student accommodation, the Universities UK/Guild HECode of Practicefor the Management of Student Housing.
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


Summer Festival | Student Life | University of LincolnJune and July 2021
Sign off for the summer at the Lincoln Summer Festival.
Celebrate the lifting of lockdown restrictions this summer with an exciting mix of social, educational, and skills-related opportunities, and events - including student-led activities - all making the best of our beautiful campus and city.
Running through June and July, the Lincoln Summer Festival is a collaboration between the University and the Students Union which aims to bring our community back together on campus as we pass through the next steps of the Governments roadmap.
With live music, entertainment, film and food, therell be opportunities to meet up physically and virtually with friends and to connect with new people. Enjoy a variety of sports, whether as a spectator or participant, or try out arts and crafts, fine food and cookery, or meditation to promote health and wellbeing.
The festival will be underpinned by range of academic andemployability skills development activities, designed for students across all academic disciplines and levels to work with peers and tutors, build skills and confidence, and enhance CVs  all of which can contribute towardsThe Lincoln Award, which you can sign up for or get completed during the festival via the fast track support available.
Coinciding with the annual LincolnFestival of Creativity, students will be at the heart of it all with on-campus showcases of students work, performance opportunities, and insights into university research.
For students in University-managed accommodation, contract terms will be extended where needed free of charge for an extra month to enable more students to stay in Lincoln for the festival.
Student-led Events and Workshops
As part of our Summer Festival of Learning, you can take part in a range of student-led sessions that will help you to meet new people and develop your skills in areas from podcasting to photography! You can find all the student-led skills events on Eventbrite using the link below. 
Get Involved
You can explore what activities we have planned using the links below to find out more.Whether you're interested inour variety of academic and employability skills development activities, or would like to make time for some self care with our health and wellbeing schedule - there's something for everyone.
Discover a range of subject-specific events all designed to help you develop and enhance your skills set during your studies.
Discover how the Lincoln Award could help support your future job applications, brush up on your CV-writing skills or even get involved in first aid training.
Find out how to grow your own vegetables at our University kitchen garden, try a yoga session or even plan your own self-care routine.
Join us for a special social event featuring live music, drama, dance, conversation, and a picnic of sandwiches, scones, and treats from Lincolnshire. 
The University of Lincoln's Global Opportunities Team are offering 50 fully funded virtual international internships worth up to 600 each.
While traveling in person is restricted, a virtual internship offers a fantastic opportunity for students to gain an international and intercultural experience while boosting their academic and personal development, building transferable skills, and broadening their cultural horizons.
An individual internship will last from approximately 4 - 12 weeks in length and can fit around your existing commitments - all you will need to get involved is access to a personal computer or laptop and a broadband connection.
To find out more, register to attend the session taking place on Tuesday 29 June at 2:00pm athttps://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/virtual-internship-showcase-tickets-158707854465. Youll hear from the organisations which deliver the internships, students who have already completed an internship, and the Global Opportunities Team.
To find out how to apply, please emailgo@lincoln.ac.ukor visit Go Global.

Here for You
Lincoln Students Union is an independent, student-led organisation run on behalf of all University of Lincoln students. The Students' Union's venues play host to a range of activities, live music, award-winning club events, and comedy throughout the year.


Great Lives | Student Life | University of LincolnGreat Lives Lecture Series
The University of Lincolnregularly welcomes high-profile individuals from all over the world to speak at our prestigious Great Lives lecture series. Open to staff, students, and the general public, the series connects audiences with inspiring figures who are considered leaders in the worlds of business, sport, politics, science, and the arts.
Chris Packham
Naturalist and TV presenter Chris Packham has delivered a number of Great Lives lectures and was appointed Visiting Professor at the University of Lincoln in 2015. His passion, knowledge and vast experience has benefited undergraduates on Zoology, Biology, Biomedical Science, Bioveterinary Science, Animal Behaviour and Welfare courses, as well as students in the School of English and Journalism and Lincoln School of Film and Media.
Carol Ann Duffy
Dame Carol Ann Duffy is the first woman to hold the post of Poet Laureate in its nearly 350-year history, and was appointed in 2009 for a ten-year fixed term. At Lincoln, Carol Ann is currently a Visiting Artist, giving lectures as well as speaking to students and alumni.
Lord Victor Adebowale
Lord Victor Adebowale CBE was Chancellor of the University of Lincoln from December 2008 until September 2023. He is recognised as a leading voice for people affected by poverty, mental health issues, drugs, alcohol, learning disability and complex needs.
Michael Mosley
Michael Mosley is a science presenter, journalist, and executive producer. He has become well-known for presenting health and medicine-based TV programmes for the BBC, and is also the author of the international bestselling books The Clever Guts Diet, The Fast Diet, Fast Exercise, and The 8-Week Blood Sugar Diet.
Angela Rippon
Famous for becoming the BBCs first regular female newsreader in 1976, Angela Rippon has become a well-known face and voice on British television. The award-winning journalist has presented a wide variety of programmes from hard news and current affairs, to quiz shows and magazine programmes for both the BBC and other commercial radio and television stations. She has also authored several books. 
Tom Heap
TV presenter Tom Heap is a freelance broadcaster and journalist with a passionate concern for rural affairs, science and the environment. He presents the investigations on Countryfile  one of Britains most popular factual TV programmes - and is the principal voice of Costing the Earth on Radio 4, the nations only dedicated environment series. He is also a regular Panorama reporter covering food, farming energy and wildlife.
Andrew Graham-Dixon
Art critic, journalist and TV presenter, Andrew Graham-Dixon, has presented numerous landmark series on art for the BBC, including the acclaimed A History of British Art, Renaissance, and Art of Eternity, as well as individual documentaries on art and artists. For more than 20 years he has published a weekly column on art, first in the Independent and more recently in the Sunday Telegraph.
Abbie Hutty
In her current role Abbie coordinates a team of specialists that are working on developing a rover structure that will survive the rigours of a rocket launch, descent through Mars atmosphere, landing on its surface and lasting the operational lifetime of the mission.
Jason Bradbury
Jason Bradbury, technology expert and presenter of Channel 5s The Gadget Show, was a Visiting Lecturer who taught on the Product Design and Computer Science degrees. Jason used his industry insight and experience for exciting project modules to provide industry-relevant challenges to students in their final year.
Judy Friedberg
Judy Friedberg is a freelance media consultant and journalist who worked on both foreign and home news before specialising in Higher Education as Universities Editor at the Guardian newspaper responsible for the University Guide and Guardian Students and overseeing the Higher Education editorial.
John Sergeant
John Sergeant is an award-winning journalist who has previously worked as the BBCs Chief Political Correspondent and ITNs Political Editor. Now a freelance journalist and broadcaster, John reports for BBC Ones The One Show, has hosted Have I Got News For You?, and is a regular on many Radio 4 panel shows. 
Robert Winston
Professor Robert Winston is a medical doctor, scientist, and well-known television presenter. He has presented many TV shows for the BBC including The Human Body, Child of our Time, and Walking with Cavemen. 
Dallas Campbell
Dallas Campbell is a presenter, actor and writer. He was a presenter of BBC Ones popular science show, Bang Goes the Theory, for six series, also co-presenting The Gadget Show, where he raced jet-powered street luges, wrestled robot jellyfish, tested the latest in gadgets, and broke the Scalextric land speed record.
Ann Cleeves
A prolific writer, Ann's books have been translated into 20 languages. Her novels are bestsellers in the UK, Scandinavia and Germany, selling widely and to critical acclaim in the United States. Two of Anns series of novels have been turned into major TV productions. 
The Rt. Hon John Bercow MP
The Right Honourable John Bercow is the Member of Parliament for Buckingham and was elected as the 157th Speaker of the House of Commons on 22nd June 2009. He has been involved in politics since the mid 80s when he served as National Chairman of the Federation of Conservative Students.
Mark Walport
Sir Mark Walport is Chief Executive of UK Research and Innovation. He has long been a champion for science, engineering, and technology and has held roles as Government Chief Scientific Adviser, Head of the Government Office for Science, and Co-Chair of the Prime Ministers Council for Science and Technology.
Susan Greenfield
Baroness Susan Greenfield is a neuroscientist, author, and broadcaster. She is a currently a Senior Research Fellow at Oxford University where she heads a multi-disciplinary research group exploring novel brain mechanisms linked to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimers and Parkinsons.
Rory Underwood
Rory Underwood MBE is one of Englands sporting greats. During his career as a professional rugby player, he scored a remarkable 49 tries in 85 international matches for England, making him his countrys all-time leading try scorer. He also scored 134 tries for Leicester Tigers and toured with the British & Irish Lions in 1989 and 1993, before being awarded an MBE for Services to Sport in 1995. 
Stewart Lee
Stewart Lee is a stand-up comedian, writer, and director. He has made appearances on several TV shows for the BBC and Channel 4, and has won several awards including Best Male Television Comic and Best Comedy Entertainment Programme for Stewart Lees Comedy Vehicle at the 2011 British Comedy Awards. 
Paul Boateng
A House of Lords peer and global development campaigner, Lord Paul Boateng became the first British person of African descent to serve as Cabinet Minister when he was appointed as Chief Secretary to the Treasury in 2002. He is currently Chairman of the English Speaking Union, an educational charity which works to give people the skills and confidence to articulate their ideas.
Suzanna Taverne
Suzanna Taverne has had a wide-ranging career spanning banking, education and media, across the private, public and not-for-profit sectors. In her current role as a BBC Trustee, she oversees the Services Committee and is a member of the Value for Money Committee.
Professor James Kakalios
Professor James Kakalios is a renowned US physicist, bestselling author, and dynamic storyteller who has advanced physics not only in terms of research but in world-wide outreach. His popular book, The Physics of Superheroes, has been translated into six languages, and he has been called upon by Hollywood directors as a consultant on superhero movies. 
Bridget Kendall
Bridget Kendall MBE is an English journalist who became one of the BBCs most respected international correspondents over her career. Since 1998 she has held the senior role of BBC Diplomatic correspondent, reporting on and analysing major global crises and conflicts, and their impact on Britain and the wider world.
John Hurt
The late John Hurt was an actor whose screen and stage career spanned more than 50 years. He was regarded as one of Britain's finest actors and is well-known for his roles in films including Harry Potter, Alien, The Elephant Man, and V for Vendetta. 
Martin Rees
Lord Martin Rees is a leading astrophysicist as well as a senior figure in UK science. He has conducted influential theoretical work on subjects as diverse as black hole formation and extragalactic radio sources, and provided key evidence to contradict the Steady State theory of the evolution of the Universe.
Stephanie Shirley
Dame Stephanie Shirley is a successful IT entrepreneur turned ardent?philanthropist. Her charitable Shirley Foundation has made over 67m grants and initiated a number of projects that are pioneering by nature, strategic in impact, and significant in money terms.
Carl Djerassi 
A prolific chemist, as well as a novelist, playwright, and poet, the late Professor Carl Djerassi made crucial contributions to the development of synthetic cortisone and the birth-control pill.
Charlotte Hogg
Carenza Lewis
Professor Carenza Lewis is a British academic, archaeologist, and television presenter. She is Professor of Public Understanding of Research at the University of Lincoln, and became a familiar face on TV when she became a presenter of the Time Team series on Channel 4 in the early 1990s. 
Nicholas Parsons
Nicholas Parsons was a well-known radio and television presenter and an actor who enjoyed a career spanning more than 70 years. He played many supporting roles in British films in the 1950s and 1960s before going on to host many shows including Sale of the Century and BBC Radio 4s Just a Minute.
Scott Davidson
Professor Scott Davidson is an international legal scholar. He has taught international and European law at the Universities of Hull (UK) and Canterbury (New Zealand), and published a number of books and articles on the international law of human rights, the law of the sea, and European law. He was also Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University of Lincoln.
Browse Our Great Lives Videos
Great Lives Preview with Andrew Graham-Dixon
Visiting Professor Andrew Graham-Dixon gives a sneak preview into what he will talk about in his upcoming Great Lives lecture in Lincoln.
Save the Planet with Chris Packham
Visiting Professor Chris Packham talks about the changes we can all make to protect the planet against pollution and climate change.
Live Q&A with Tom Heap
Countryfile presenter Tom Heap takes part in a live Question and Answer session on the subject of the environment at the University of Lincoln.
Great Lives with Angela Rippon
Newsreader and television journalist, Angela Rippon, talks to students and members of the public as part of the University's Great Lives lecture series.
All About Bats and Owls with Chris Packham
Visiting Professor Chris Packham talks all about bats and owls in this special Halloween Great Lives lecture.
Great Lives with Tom Heap
Countryfile and Panorama presenter Tom Heap delivers his 2018 Great Lives lecture at the University of Lincoln.
My Life and Autism with Chris Packham
University of Lincoln Visiting Professor Chris Packham shares his experience and tips for university students with autism or Aspergers in this playlist.
Great Lives with Andrew Graham-Dixon
Historian and art critic Andrew Graham-Dixon delivers his 2018 Great Lives lecture at the University of Lincoln.
Great Lives Lectures
Visiting Professor Chris Packham talks about the importance of the Great Lives (previously Great Minds) lecture series at the University of Lincoln.
Chris Packham: Bats and Owls Highlights Reel
Highlights of Chris Packham's special Halloween All About Bats and Owls Great Lives lecture.
Andrew Graham-Dixon: Visiting Professor
s MA Creative Writing and Publishing course. ", 'Andrew Graham-Dixon: The Value of Undertaking a Degree
Broadcaster, author, and University of Lincoln Visiting Professor, Andrew Graham-Dixon, explains the importance and value of undertaking a degree. 
Andrew Graham-Dixon: The Value of an Arts Degree
s society."]


Academic Activities | Summer Festival | University of LincolnEnhance Your Studies
Below are a range of resources that you can explore, all designed to complement your studies with us.
Online Learning
Develop and hone your skill sets with our online training modules and workshops covering everything from leadership and time management to CV writing and communication skills


Getting to Lincoln  | Student Life | University of LincolnGetting to Lincoln
How to Get Here
Situated in the East Midlands region of England, Lincolns central location allows for quick and easy access to London and a number of other major cities, including Nottingham, Sheffield, Leeds, Leicester, and Hull.
Londons Kings Cross Station is around two hours away by train, and a number of airports are within easy reach, providing direct links to locations around the world.
By Road
s drive from the M1.", "The entrance to the main car park at the University's Brayford Pool Campus is located on Rope Walk, near its junction with Tritton Road (postcode LN6 7DQ). ", 'To find information on the range of parking options available in Lincoln see Visit Lincoln'sParking Guide.
By Rail
 walk from the University of Lincoln's Brayford Pool Campus.The station is fully accessible for wheelchair users.", "Direct trains to/from London King's Cross take around two hours. There are also frequent rail connections to other major cities, including Sheffield, Nottingham, Leicester, and Leeds.", "Students wishing to make their own way to the campus from Heathrow on public transport are advised to take the Piccadilly Underground line to King's Cross Station, before taking a train to Lincoln.", 'Book train tickets on theNational Rail website. See information on Lincoln Central Station on theEast Midlands Trains website.
By Air
s central location allows for quick and easy access to a number of airports for domestic, European, and international flights.", "Many international students fly to London Heathrow before making their way to Lincoln. Heathrow is the UK's main airport and is west of London. It is connected to central London by the Underground Tube system. Some students also fly to other major UK airports such as Manchester or Gatwick, or arrive at regional airports such as East Midlands, which is near Nottingham.", 'The University offers new international students a free airport pick-up service from London Heathrow airport on selected dates. New international students will be met at Heathrow airport and escorted to Lincoln. To enquire about this service,please emailinternationalwelcome@lincoln.ac.ukor complete theAirport Transfer to Lincoln Booking Form.

Maps
Campus Map
s Brayford Pool Campus on foot. ", 'Our Campus
Lincoln City Centre and Parking
Transport links around our main Brayford Pool Campus, including local parking and sat nav codes.
City and Parking
Routes to Lincoln Map
Major road routes to Lincoln, including international airport locations throughout the Midlands and North of England. 
Routes to Lincoln
Accommodation 360 Tour
On-campus and approved off-campus accommodation located across the city. 
Accommodation Tour
Routes to Riseholme
Routes to our Riseholme Campus, located just north of the city. 
Riseholme Map
Routes to Holbeach
Maps and directions to our Holbeach Campus in South Lincolnshire. 
Holbeach Map


["Student's Union", 'Representing You
 Union is an independent, student-led organisation run on behalf of all University of Lincoln students. The aim of the Students' Union is to facilitate the best possible student experience by providing a wide range of services which put students at the heart of life at Lincoln. ", 'Students are able to get involved with sports and societies, develop their skills with volunteering and other employability opportunities, whilst also accessing many other services. Visit the Students' Union website to see everything that's on offer.
Your Student Leaders
 Union has a team of elected Student Leaders who aim to ensure that your student voice is heard. Your Student Leaders consist of the VP Wellbeing and Community, VP International, VP Activities, and VP Campaigns and Environment. They are here to make sure all students feel represented on campus.", 'Support and Advice
The Advice Centre offers free, professional, independent, and impartial advice. If you need any support or representation regarding academic studies, finance, or housing, the trained advisors are there to help you. You are able to get in touch via email, phone, WhatsApp, or you can book an appointment online.
If you have feedback about your course, then your Academic Reps are here to listen. Academic Reps are students elected to represent your academic interests and work with the University to ensure that students have the best possible experience.
The Students' Union also provides a wide range of support for our international community. No matter whether you're an international student looking for support or to meet new people and exchange cultures, or a home student wanting to find out how you can support our international community, there are plenty of opportunities for you to get involved in.
Sports, Societies, and Academic Societies
Sports, Societies, and Academic Societies are a great way to make friends and feel part of a community. There are currently over 100 groups to get involved with, and there is something for everyone!
Events
 Union will be hosting frequent events and activities. Experience and enjoy the outdoor cinema, fayres, food markets, and social sport. The Students' Union will also play host to a range of live music, award-winning club events, comedy nights, and much more.", 'Students' Union Venues
Towers
Housed in an impressive glass building, once an engine shed, and located on the Brayford Waterfront within the university campus, Towers is a hub of entertainment for students and staff.
The Engine Shed
s largest live entertainment venue with a host of regular and one off club nights, including the student favourite Quack, live music events, and much more!", 'The Swan
Located on the edge of the University of Lincoln campus with a view of the Brayford Waterfront, The Swan is a homely pub in a prime location for waterside food and drink.
The Barge
Moored on the picturesque Brayford Pool, the Barge offers a special experience allowing you to enjoy a variety of both food and drink whilst on the water.
Towers
Housed in an impressive glass building, once an engine shed, and located on the Brayford Waterfront within the university campus, Towers is a hub of entertainment for students and staff.
The Engine Shed
s largest live entertainment venue with a host of regular and one off club nights, including the student favourite Quack, live music events, and much more!", 'The Swan
Located on the edge of the University of Lincoln campus with a view of the Brayford Waterfront, The Swan is a homely pub in a prime location for waterside food and drink.
The Barge
Moored on the picturesque Brayford Pool, the Barge offers a special experience allowing you to enjoy a variety of both food and drink whilst on the water.


The Library | Student Life | University of LincolnUniversity of Lincoln Libraries
Your Library
The Great Central Warehouse Library is home to 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections. Situated on the Brayford Pool campus, and open 24/7 at peak times,it is a central point for students across the university to work both individually and collaboratively. The Library is staffed by an experienced team who are on hand to offer support for learning development through drop-ins, workshops, and individual appointments.

Academic Subject Librarians
Each of our Colleges has Academic Subject Librarians on hand to support you with finding and using information, referencing, and study skills. Students have the choice of booking one-to-one appointments or attending one of the regularly run drop-in sessions. 
Library Events
Library Resources
The University of Lincoln Libraries provide a wide array of free resources from referencing guides to specialist collections for our students to use and get the most from their studies and research. The library, and many of its resources, are also available for use from external researchers and schools up to five times per academic year.
Databases
The University of Lincoln libraries provide free access to over 418 databases for students and academics to access. This means that our students can draw from a global pool of research wherever they are.
Browse Databases
Referencing Guides
The University of Lincoln Libraries provide free, downloadable referencing handbooks on a wide range of referencing styles including Harvard, APA, and Oscola. 
View Our Guides
Special Collections
Alongside the wealth of information in the main University Libraries, our students have access to special collections in the Lincoln Cathedral Library and the Lincolnshire Archives. 
Explore Collections
Study Spaces
If you want a change of scenery, more specialist resources, or a space close to your lectures, then there are a range of other great study spaces for you to work in across campus.

Ross Library
A further area of support for students at the University is the Ross Library. Situated in our Ross-Lucas Medical Sciences Building, the Library brings together the Universitys collections covering medicine, life sciences, pharmacy, chemistry, nursing, and allied health and social care. In addition to these collections, the Library provides a range of flexible study spaces.
Library Learning Lounges
s, providing you with a social and collaborative space close to teaching facilities.", 'Decolonisation
The University of Lincoln is committed to decoloniality and decolonisation through the principles of diversifying, decentring, and deconstructing. Our libraries have a range of insightful resources tohelpyouto find out more about decolonisation and aidyou in applying these principles toyour own studies.
 Explore Decolonisation at Lincoln


["Meet the Master's: International Sports Business Management", '  Event Series
s: Accounting and Finance (online)", '  Event Series
s: Events Management", '  Event Series
Postgraduate Funding Advice Session
  Workshop
Informal Visit Day
  Open Day
s: School of Psychology", '  Event Series
s: Chemical Engineering with Sustainability", '  Event Series
s: Data Science and Applied Analytics", '  Event Series
Informal Visit Day
  Open Day
s: MA Education", '  Event Series
s: Medieval Studies", '  Event Series
Informal Visit Day
  Open Day
s: Creative Writing", '  Event Series
Offer Holder Day
  Open Day
Offer Holder Day
  Open Day
Graduation
Graduation
s: MA English Literature", '  Event Series
Graduation
s: Creative Writing", '  Event Series
Discover the Future of Agri-Food Technology
  Student Event
Postgraduate Interview Advice Webinar
Live Lounge: What to Expect from Lectures and Assessments
  Event Series
Offer Holder Day
  Open Day
Medicine Open Day
  Open Day
Informal Visit Day
  Open Day
Informal Visit Day
  Open Day
Curriculum Dance Development Consultancy Workshop (Primary)
  Workshop
Curriculum Dance Development Consultancy Workshop (Secondary)
  Workshop
Postgraduate Open Day
  Event Series
 and Advisors' Conference", '  Conference
4th Development Economics Conference
  Conference
Undergraduate Open Day
  Open Day
Undergraduate Open Day
  Open Day
Undergraduate Open Day
  Open Day


Transferable Skills Activities  | Summer Festival | University of LincolnPrepare For Your Future
Developinga core set of skills and abilities that you can apply to a variety of roles and industries will help you to stand out from the crowd. To support you in takingthe first step on your career path and enhance your employability, there are a wide range of transferable skills resources and activities on offer during the Summer Festival.
Whether you would like topractice your interview technique and CV writing, learn about first aid, or considerthe possibility of extending your time with us to study at postgraduate level, you can see allsessionsand book your place below. Many sessions are student-led - you can find details in the schedules below or visit the dedicatedEventbrite page.
Student-led Events and Workshops
As part of our Summer Festival of Learning, you can take part in a range of student-led sessions that will help you to meet new people and develop your skills in areas from podcasting to photography! You can find all the student-led skills events on Eventbrite using the link below. 
Online Learning
To enhance your studies, you can take advantage of our online training modules and workshops covering everything from leadership and time management to CV writing and communication skills
Careers and Employability
Did you know -  we have a dedicated team of employability and careers professionals to help you develop the knowledge, skills, confidence, and experience needed to kick-start your chosen career? Whether you're looking for one-to-one careers guidance or assistance with a work placement, they're here to help support you.


Discover Lincoln | Student Life | University of LincolnDiscover Lincoln
A Fantastic Place to Study
One of the worlds great historic cities, Lincoln is renowned for its fusion of old and new, seamlessly blending medieval heritage with modern city living. Lincoln is a smaller city with a friendly community feel but it still offers a rich variety of attractions, activities, and amenities to keep you entertained throughout your time here, from socialising, sports, and shopping, to culture, castles, and countryside pursuits.
Historic Lincoln
Step back in time and take a trip up the aptly named Steep Hill, which is the gateway to the Lincolns historic Cathedral Quarter and Bailgate area, where character-filled streets are lined with quirky shops and enticing eateries. The area is home to Lincoln Cathedral, one of Europes most celebrated medieval buildings and finest examples of Gothic architecture, and Lincoln Castle, where you can walk in the footsteps of kings and see one of only four surviving originals of the 1215 Magna Carta.
Lincoln Cathedral and Castle
Watching over the city, Lincoln Cathedral is one of Europes most celebrated medieval buildings and was once the tallest building in the world. The Cathedral also provides the stunning setting for the Universitys graduation ceremonies. Lincoln Castle is home to one of only four surviving originals of the 1215 Magna Carta and the only place in the world this landmark document can be seen side-by-side with the related Charter of the Forest.
At Your Leisure
Just a short walk away from campus, youll find a range of restaurants, cafes, and bars that overlook the beautiful marina area, while in the centre of Lincoln, youll be spoilt for choice with the eclectic mix of pubs and entertainment venues that are available. Lincoln offers a great shopping experience  its high streets and side streets, including the newly developed Cornhill Quarter, are home to a range of independent and boutique stores alongside national brands and chains. Lincoln has also been ranked in the top 10 most affordable university cities in the UK in the NatWest Student Living Index 2023.
Cornhill Quarter
The newly developed Cornhill Quarter is home to a range of independent and boutique stores alongside national brands and chains, bars, and a cinema.
The Bailgate
The Bailgate area features independent shops and cafes nestled between the walls of the medieval Lincoln Castle and the grandeur of Lincoln Cathedral.
Brayford Pool
Within walking distance of the University is a range of restaurants, cafes, and a multi-screen cinema overlooking one of Lincoln's most iconic sights, Brayford Pools marina.
Arts and Culture
There is a lively programme of theatre and festival events in Lincoln, and the city also boasts a range of museums and public art galleries. The Universitys theatre and art gallery, both located on our Brayford Pool Campus, provide a home for new contemporary performances, featuring the next generation of artists and showcasing new artistic ideas. Our digital audio platform serves both University and city communities, while the new Barbican Creative Hub, located across from Lincoln Central Railway Station, is giving artists and creatives new opportunities to connect with each other and the public.
Comedy and Entertainment
The Engine Shed play host to a range of activities, live music, award-winning club events, and comedy throughout the year, while Lincoln Arts Centre is part of a busy arts community, which hosts professional performances and student production. The city is also home to the New Theatre Royal and The Drill, offering a packed calendar of theatre, music, and comedy to enjoy.
Events in the City
s always something happening in our vibrant city.", 'The Great Outdoors
You dont have to travel far to experience the great outdoors. Lincoln itself is home to several parks and beautiful waterways and is surrounded by picturesque countryside and stunning landscapes, ready to be explored through country walks and cycling trips.
Perfect Days Out
Lincolnshire also offers plenty of options for great days out. From country parks, nature reserves, and historic houses, such as nearby Doddington Hall, to aviation heritage, numerous festivals, and visits to the popular seaside towns, theres always plenty to do in one of Englands largest counties.
Local Sport
Lincoln is also home to a wide range of sports and leisure facilities, including cinemas, gyms, swimming pools, and cycle routes. Alternatively, you can watch one of our local sports teams in action or catch one of the many live sporting events that take place in and around the city.


179 High Street | Accommodation | University of Lincoln179 High Street
About 179 High Street
About 179 High Street
s Great Central Warehouse Library, as well as the Lincoln Students' Union.", 'The accommodation has been designed to offer students a traditional halls of residence experience in a modern environment. It comprises 282 en-suite bedrooms in shared apartments, each catering for between four and 16 students.Each of the rooms are single occupancy with a three-quarter bed, fitted wardrobe, desk, and drawers.En-suite rooms include a shower, basin, and toilet.
179 High Street also has 19 self-contained studios. Studio rooms have a three-quarter bed and also come with a fitted wardrobe, desk, and drawers storage and there is a studio room specifically designed for students with disabilities.
Each of the apartments in this complex has a fully fitted kitchen that includes a cooker, fridge/freezer, microwave, kettle, television, dining area, iron, ironing board, vacuum cleaner, and mop and bucket. Rent is inclusive of utility bills. Free 24-hour WiFi internet access and wired network is also available.
Can't find what you're looking for? Browse our FAQs.
All utility bills covered
Contents insurance included
On-campus location
Book onto an Open Day
Get in Touch
View in 360o
View Map
Pricing
Here you can take a look at the typical length of accommodation contracts, as well as typical payment options.
*Please note that monthly costs may differ slightly and the provided cost is a common example rather than a specific price for every room available. Contract start dates are also estimates and yet to be confirmed
179 High Street
179 High Street
University Gym Access
All students who book a University-managed room for September 2024 will also receive gym membership, with classes access, for the duration of their accommodation contract (40, 44, or 46 weeks). Our on-campus gym is located in the University Sports Centre, just a short walk away from our on-campus accommodation.
LikeWhatYouSee?
Applying for accommodation at Lincoln is simple. If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2024 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal. You may need to allow up to 24 hours after you have accepted your offer before making your application. During your application, you'll be able to highlight any specific requirements you may have, such as room location preference, housemates, or whether you're looking to live with like-minded flatmates.
If you haven't already made a visit to campus to see our stunning accommodation options in person, why not book a visit? You can find out more about how to book your visit on our Open Days and Visits page.
Our Accommodation
Browse our range of accommodation options available to students.
Cygnet Wharf

Lincoln Courts

St Marks

Valentine Court

Viking House

360o Accommodation View
179 High Street
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


Cygnet Wharf | Accommodation | University of LincolnCygnet Wharf
About Cygnet Wharf
About Cygnet Wharf
Cygnet Wharf is our first-year only student property, designed to offer a traditional halls of residence experience in a modern environment. The complex comprises three contemporary buildings of self-catered apartments, the majority of which house between 10 and 12 students. In total there are 442 furnished student bedrooms. Some apartments have rooms specifically designed for students with disabilities.
Each apartment has a fully fitted kitchen including a cooker, fridge/freezer, microwave, kettle, television, dining area, iron, ironing board, vacuum cleaner, and mop and bucket.
All rooms in Cygnet Wharf are single en-suite rooms and fully furnished with a three-quarter size bed (a small double), wardrobe, desk, and drawers. En-suite rooms include a shower, basin, and toilet. Rent is inclusive of utility bills. Free 24-hour WiFi internet access and wired network is also available.
Can't find what you're looking for? Browse our FAQs.
All Utility Bills Covered
Contents Insurance Included
On-campus location
Book onto an Open Day
Get in Touch
View in 360o
View Map
Pricing
Here you can take a look at the typical length of accommodation contracts, as well as typical payment options.
*Please note that monthly costs may differ slightly and the provided cost is a common example rather than a specific price for every room available. Contract start dates are also estimates and yet to be confirmed
Cygnet Wharf
University Gym Access
All students who book a University-managed room for September 2024 will also receive gym membership, with classes access, for the duration of their accommodation contract (40, 44, or 46 weeks). Our on-campus gym is located in the University Sports Centre, just a short walk away from our on-campus accommodation.
LikeWhatYouSee?
Applying for accommodation at Lincoln is simple. If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2024 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal. You may need to allow up to 24 hours after you have accepted your offer before making your application. During your application, you'll be able to highlight any specific requirements you may have, such as room location preference, housemates, or whether you're looking to live with like-minded flatmates.
If you haven't already made a visit to campus to see our stunning accommodation options in person, why not book a visit? You can find out more about how to book your visit on our Open Days and Visits page.
Our Accommodation
Browse our range of accommodation options available to students.
179 High Street

Lincoln Courts

St Marks

Valentine Court

Viking House

360o Accommodation View
Cygnet Wharf
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


Lincoln Courts | Accommodation | University of LincolnLincoln Courts
About Lincoln Courts
About Lincoln Courts
Lincoln Courts is a stunning waterfront accommodation complex, situated in our Brayford Student Village. It is owned and managed by the University of Lincoln, and our dedicated Accommodation Services team aims to help you make the most of your student experience.
The complex is made up of 17 contemporary buildings of self-catered apartments, which each house five to eight students. In total there are 1,037 furnished student bedrooms. Some apartments have rooms designed specifically for students with disabilities.
You can book one of two room types; en-suite or shared bathroom in a choice of value or standard buildings. Students can choose between an en-suite or shared bathroom, in either a standard or a value building which is slightly older. There is a small price difference between en-suite rooms in Lincoln Courts and Lincoln Courts Value. Rooms with a shared bathroom are the same price for both Courts types.
Each apartment has fully fitted kitchen/dining facilities with a cooker, fridge, microwave, kettle, iron, ironing board, vacuum cleaner, and mop and bucket. All rooms are fully furnished. Each room is furnished with a single bed, wardrobe, desk, and drawers. Free 24-hour WiFi access to the University broadband network is also available. In addition to the facilities that come with a standard room, these rooms have en-suite bathrooms which include a shower, basin, and toilet.Rent is inclusive of utility bills, personal possessions insurance, and University WiFi access.
Can't find what you're looking for? Browse our FAQs.
All Utility Bills Covered
Contents Insurance Included
On Campus Location
Book onto an Open Day
Get in Touch
View in 360o
View Map
Pricing
Here you can take a look at the typical length of accommodation contracts, as well as typical payment options.
*Please note that monthly costs may differ slightly and the provided cost is a common example rather than a specific price for every room available. Contract start dates are also estimates and yet to be confirmed
Lincoln Courts
Lincoln Courts
University Gym Access
All students who book a University-managed room for September 2024 will also receive gym membership, with classes access, for the duration of their accommodation contract (40, 44, or 46 weeks). Our on-campus gym is located in the University Sports Centre, just a short walk away from our on-campus accommodation.
LikeWhatYouSee?
Applying for accommodation at Lincoln is simple. If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2024 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal. You may need to allow up to 24 hours after you have accepted your offer before making your application. During your application, you'll be able to highlight any specific requirements you may have, such as room location preference, housemates, or whether you're looking to live with like-minded flatmates.
If you haven't already made a visit to campus to see our stunning accommodation options in person, why not book a visit? You can find out more about how to book your visit on our Open Days and Visits page.
Our Accommodation
Browse our range of accommodation options available to students.
179 High Street

Cygnet Wharf

St Marks

Valentine Court

Viking House

360o Accommodation View
Lincoln Courts
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


Valentine Court | Accommodation | University of LincolnValentine Court
About Valentine Court
About Valentine Court
Valentine Court is a University-managed development which opened in September 2019. It is made up of 70 townhouse style apartments, each catering for between six and 13 students. In total there are 469 furnished student bedrooms. Some apartments have rooms specifically designed for students with disabilities. Valentine Court is located to the south of the Brayford Pool Campus, approximately a 7-minute walk from the University.
The complex consists of modern, well- equipped apartment style houses with an atmosphere of communal living. The bedrooms are arranged over three floors and residents share a spacious kitchen, dining, and lounge area on the ground floor. The en-suite bedrooms offer comfortable accommodation with fitted furniture and storage.
Each apartment has a fully fitted kitchen including a cooker, fridge/freezer, washer/dryer, microwave, kettle, television, dining area, iron, ironing board, vacuum cleaner, and mop and bucket. All rooms in Valentine Court are single-occupancy en-suite rooms and are fully furnished including a three-quarter size bed, wardrobe, desk, and drawers. En-suite rooms include a shower, basin, and toilet. Rent is inclusive of utility bills. Free 24-hour WiFi internet access and wired network is also available.
Valentine Court offers limited permit parking, for an additional cost, for cars only. Requests for parking permits are booked via the Booking Portal, once live after Results Day.
Can't find what you're looking for? Browse our FAQs.
All Utility Bills Covered
Contents Insurance Included
On Campus location
Book onto an Open Day
Get in Touch
View in 360o
Pricing
Here you can take a look at the typical length of accommodation contracts, as well as typical payment options.
*Please note that monthly costs may differ slightly and the provided cost is a common example rather than a specific price for every room available. Contract start dates are also estimates and yet to be confirmed
Valentine Court
Valentine Court
University Gym Access
All students who book a University-managed room for September 2024 will also receive gym membership, with classes access, for the duration of their accommodation contract (40, 44, or 46 weeks). Our on-campus gym is located in the University Sports Centre, just a short walk away from our on-campus accommodation.
LikeWhatYouSee?
Applying for accommodation at Lincoln is simple. If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2024 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal. You may need to allow up to 24 hours after you have accepted your offer before making your application. During your application, you'll be able to highlight any specific requirements you may have, such as room location preference, housemates, or whether you're looking to live with like-minded flatmates.
If you haven't already made a visit to campus to see our stunning accommodation options in person, why not book a visit? You can find out more about how to book your visit on our Open Days and Visits page.
Our Accommodation
Browse our range of accommodation options available to students.
179 High Street

Cygnet Wharf

Lincoln Courts

St Marks

Viking House

360o Accommodation View
Valentine Court
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


St Marks  | Accommodation | University of LincolnSt Marks
About St Marks
About St Marks
St Marks is a new University-managed accommodation situated just minutes from the Brayford Pool Campus and a short walk from the city centre. The first phase will include 1222 en-suite bedrooms in apartments comprising 6 to 12 en-suite bedrooms. The complex is spread across 10 blocks with single-occupancy bedrooms in apartments comprising 6 to 12 en-suite bedrooms.
Each apartment has a fully fitted kitchen including a cooker, fridge/freezer, microwave, kettle, television, dining area, iron, ironing board, vacuum cleaner, and mop and bucket. All rooms in St Marks are single-occupancy en-suite rooms and are fully furnished including a three-quarter size bed, wardrobe, desk, and drawers. En-suite rooms include a shower, basin, and toilet. Rent is inclusive of utility bills. Free 24-hour WiFi internet access and wired network is also available.
Some apartments have rooms specifically designed for students with disabilities.
Can't find what you're looking for? Browse our FAQs.
All Utility Bills Covered
Contents Insurance Included
On Campus location
Book onto an Open Day
Get in Touch
View in 360o
Pricing
Here you can take a look at the typical length of accommodation contracts, as well as typical payment options.
*Please note that monthly costs may differ slightly and the provided cost is a common example rather than a specific price for every room available. Contract start dates are also estimates and yet to be confirmed
St Marks
St Marks
University Gym Access
All students who book a University-managed room for September 2024 will also receive gym membership, with classes access, for the duration of their accommodation contract (40, 44, or 46 weeks). Our on-campus gym is located in the University Sports Centre, just a short walk away from our on-campus accommodation.
LikeWhatYouSee?
Applying for accommodation at Lincoln is simple. If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2024 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal. You may need to allow up to 24 hours after you have accepted your offer before making your application. During your application, you'll be able to highlight any specific requirements you may have, such as room location preference, housemates, or whether you're looking to live with like-minded flatmates.
If you haven't already made a visit to campus to see our stunning accommodation options in person, why not book a visit? You can find out more about how to book your visit on our Open Days and Visits page.
Our Accommodation
Browse our range of accommodation options available to students.
179 High Street

Cygnet Wharf

Lincoln Courts

Valentine Court

Viking House

360o Accommodation View
St Marks 
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


Viking House | Accommodation | University of LincolnViking House
About Viking House
About Viking House
Viking House is located in the centre of Lincoln, just a short walk from the main Brayford Pool Campus. It offers a traditional halls of residence experience in a modern environment. The complex is made up of three buildings of self-catered apartments, with each housing between eight and 23 students. In total there are 272 furnished student bedrooms. Some apartments have rooms specifically designed for students with disabilities.
Each apartment has a fully fitted kitchen including a cooker, fridge/freezer, microwave, kettle, television, dining area, iron, ironing board, vacuum cleaner, and mop and bucket. Currently, all rooms in Viking House are single-occupancy en-suite or studio rooms and are fully furnished with a three-quarter size bed, wardrobe, desk, and drawers. En-suite rooms include a shower, basin, and toilet. Rent is inclusive of utility bills. Free 24-hour WiFi internet access and wired network is also available.
Can't find what you're looking for? Browse our FAQs.
All Utility Bills Covered
Contents Insurance Included
On Campus location
Book onto an Open Day
Get in Touch
View in 360o
View Map
Pricing
Here you can take a look at the typical length of accommodation contracts, as well as typical payment options.
*Please note that monthly costs may differ slightly and the provided cost is a common example rather than a specific price for every room available. Contract start dates are also estimates and yet to be confirmed
Viking House
Viking House
University Gym Access
All students who book a University-managed room for September 2024 will also receive gym membership, with classes access, for the duration of their accommodation contract (40, 44, or 46 weeks). Our on-campus gym is located in the University Sports Centre, just a short walk away from our on-campus accommodation.
LikeWhatYouSee?
Applying for accommodation at Lincoln is simple. If you have accepted Lincoln as your firm choice on UCAS for 2024 entry, you can now apply for your accommodation through our online booking portal. You may need to allow up to 24 hours after you have accepted your offer before making your application. During your application, you'll be able to highlight any specific requirements you may have, such as room location preference, housemates, or whether you're looking to live with like-minded flatmates.
If you haven't already made a visit to campus to see our stunning accommodation options in person, why not book a visit? You can find out more about how to book your visit on our Open Days and Visits page.
Our Accommodation
Browse our range of accommodation options available to students.
179 High Street

Cygnet Wharf

Lincoln Courts

St Marks

Valentine Court

360o Accommodation View
Viking House
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


Residence Life Team | Accommodation | University of LincolnResidence Life Team
Here For You
To ease your transition to university and settle you in to your new place, our friendly Residence Life Team are here to help you make the most of your new home at Lincoln so that it can become so much more than just a place to study.
re here just for you.", 'Events and Activities
In addition to offering support and guidance, the teamalso run many free events and activities for students to take part in each month. Take a look at theironline programme of events for all those who live in University-managed accommodation, or catch up with their blog posts viawww.residencelife.lincoln.ac.uk/.
Contact the Residence Life Team
Current students can contact the Residence Life Team directly, every day between 6pm until midnight via email on ResLife@lincoln.ac.uk, call them on01522 835550 or chat via Twitter using the handle @ResLifeLincoln, or via Facebook and Instagram using @UniLincolnResLife.
University of Lincoln Health Service
 health needs. The clinical team includes a mixture of doctors, nurses, and other health professionals and offers a broad range of specialisms. Students are strongly encouraged to register with this service or an alternative local surgery as soon as they enrol.", 'I struggle with anxiety but with the Residence Life Team, I am able to talk to people about how I feel and be able to share experiences as well as put my worries on hold for a couple of hours.
Student Life Blog
Our Student Life blog feature articles and videos produced by students at Lincoln offering you advice on everything from work-life balance and saving money, to getting the most out of your studies with a variety of study tips. 
Contact Us
Accommodation Services TeamUniversity of LincolnBrayford Pool CampusLincolnLN6 7TS
 01522 886300
 Enquiry Form


Campus and Facilities | Student Life | University of LincolnExplore Our Campus
The University of Lincolns striking city centre campus provides a modern student-centred community. Based on the picturesque Brayford Pool waterfront, almost everything youll need is either on campus or a short walk away. At Lincoln, we constantly invest in our buildings and facilities as we strive to provide the best learning environment for our students.
We understand the importance of giving you the strongest possible foundation to help you achieve your aspirations. Whatever your chosen subject, we aim to ensure that you have access to the latest equipment and resources to support your studies. Over the past two decades, the University has invested around 400 million in its Brayford Pool Campus, with further plans to invest in additional facilities and refurbishments of existing buildings.
Study
At the heart of student life is the Great Central Warehouse Library which provides access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
Students in computer science, engineering, and mathematics and physics call the Isaac Newton Building their home, as does our strategic industry partner, Siemens Energy. Science students also have access to specialist equipment in Minster House and the Joseph Banks Laboratories. Facilities include a dispensary, pharmacy clinical skills suite, consultancy rooms, and specialist areas for the study of animal behaviour.
Psychology and health and social care students are based inthe Sarah Swift Building. Here students are able to take advantage of the new psychology laboratories, advanced research facilities, and specialist clinical suites.Sports students have access to the Universitys Sports Centre and specialist equipment in the Human Performance Centre, which contains a fully-equipped strength and conditioning training facility, specialised laboratories, and an endless pool.
Students studying arts subjects can make use of a range of bespoke spaces, studios, and resources within the Nicola de la Haye, Peter de Wint, and Alfred Tennyson Buildings, and the Lincoln Arts Centre. There are also well-equipped art, design, fashion, and dance studios. Facilities include television and photography studios and editing suites, a digital audio platform, printmaking studios, and our MakerLab - a specialist facility for working with ceramics, glass, and precious metals.
Great Central Warehouse Library
The library is open 24/7 at key times during the academic year and expert staff are on hand to help you navigate resources and support you with academic writing, statistical analysis, and referencing.
Isaac Newton Building
Computer science, engineering, and mathematics and physics students in the Isaac Newton building have access to scientific laboratories and workshops, as well as specialist robotics facilities and advanced research equipment.
Sarah Swift Building
The Sarah Swift Building is home to clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environments, and feature specialist artificial patient technologies, as well as new psychology labs including a dynamic 3D body scanner.
Ross Lucas Medical Sciences Building
The brand-new, purpose-builtRoss Lucas Medical Sciences Building was completed in March 2021 incorporating lecture theatres, laboratories, a clinical skills suite with consultation rooms, a prosection anatomy suite, and a bio-medical and health sciences library.
Find out More
Social Life
When students are not studying, there are plenty of activities and amenities for them to enjoy on campus. Many of our buildings have their own catering facilities, offering an array of food and drink options.
The University of Lincoln Students Union operates several major on-campus venues which are popular hot-spots for students during the day and at night, providing student-run spaces to socialise and enjoy something to eat or drink. The student bars Towers, and The Swan provide relaxed daytime and evening hang-outs, while The Engine Shed is one of the regions biggest live music venues. There are also a variety of shows and performances to enjoy, from traditional theatre to comedy and music, at Lincoln Arts Centre.
The Universitys on-campus Sports Centre provides many of the facilities used by the Students Union sports clubs, including five-a-side football pitches, squash courts, basketball courts, hockey pitches, and trampolines. The Centre also offers a mix of fitness classes and a well-equipped gym.
Students' Union
Lincoln Students Union is an independent, student-led organisation run on behalf of all University of Lincoln students. The Students' Union's venues play host to a range of activities, live music, award-winning club events, and comedy throughout the year.
Lincoln Arts Centre
Lincoln Arts Centre is a 450-seat professional theatre with industry-standard studio spaces. The Centre, which is part of a busy arts community, hosts professional performances alongside student productions throughout the year.
Sports Centre
The Universitys Sports Centre offers facilities including a fitness suite, sports hall, football pitches, dance studio and saunas, as well as courts for badminton, tennis, basketball, volleyball, and netball.
Accommodation
Based in the heart of Lincolns city centre, most student accommodation at the University is either on our Brayford Pool Campus or just a short distance away. The University offers a variety of options to suit your needs and budget, and all University accommodation is supported by our Residence Life Team. Whatever you are looking for, our Accommodation Services Team is on hand to help you find a great place to live.

Research and Innovation
The Human Performance Centre offersspecialist laboratories, and features modern equipment for physiological and biomechanical assessment. Labsare equipped for both teaching, academic research, and outside consultancy with businesses and elite athletes. The equipment ranges from treadmils and ergometers, through to gas and lactate measuring equipment, motion detection, impact analysis, and an endless pool.
For those with ambitions to start their own business, the Universitys on-campus business incubation centre, Sparkhouse, has helped hundreds of graduate start-ups over the years. It provides access to business support services, funding advice, training events and networking, and affordable, flexible business premises to help turn concepts into reality.
s Riseholme Park Campus is home to the Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology, aspecialist research institute which brings together sector-leading expertise in a diverse range of subjects.The University's National Centre for Food Manufacturing is based in Holbeach, in south Lincolnshire. This food manufacturing technology hub provides specialist facilities and industry-standard equipment, including analytical laboratories with a test kitchen and sensory testing suite, a technician training centre, and processing facilities.", 'Sparkhouse
Sparkhouse offers a range of start-up and grow-on office spaces, as well as virtual tenancy options for new businesses that do not need physical offices but could benefit from support services, such as mail handling or use of meeting rooms.
Lincoln Institute for Agri-Food Technology
The Institutes researchers are engaged in the development of technologies which add value or solve challenges across the food chain, from farm to fork, working with partners in industry and academia locally, nationally, and internationally.
National Centre for Food Manufacturing
The National Centre for Food Manufacturing is committed to helping the food industry innovate, aided by partnership with leading equipment suppliers and specialist facilities including a food factory, and cutting-edge automation.


