Postgraduate - What You Need to Know | Study at Lincoln | University of LincolnMaking an Informed Decision
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. To help you choose the course thats right for you, we aim to bring to your attention all the important information you may need.
Modules and Areas of Research
The modules which are currently being delivered for each taught course are listed in full on our website. In addition to the core modules all students on the course must study, there may be a range of optional modules which enable you to tailor your degree to your interests. Optional modules run dependent on demand and the availability of staff and facilities to teach them. The options for areas of research for research programmes are also listed on our individual course pages, detailing the studies and partnerships in which our academics are currently involved.
Validation/Revalidation
We want to ensure that the programmes we offer are relevant and reflect changes in subject areas and developments in industry. To do this, we may introduce new courses or update existing ones. The process of approving the new or updated content is known as validation or revalidation. You may see Subject to Validation or "Subject to Revalidation" on some course pages on our website. Please see the individual course pages to find out the current validation status of a course.
Staffing
During your studies you may be taught by a range of academics, including lecturers, demonstrators, technicians, senior lecturers, professors, practitioners, and visiting experts. You may also be supported in your learning by other students. You can find out more about the staff involved in teaching on our staff webpages or at one of our Postgraduate Open Days.
Contact Hours
s wide range of teaching spaces for collaboration and group work.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on your course will vary depending on the subject and the type of postgraduate programme you select. A taught programme could include a written dissertation, exams, presentations, and projects. A research programme could include a thesis, oral examination, and presentation to a group of research academics. You may be expected to demonstrate how your research findings have contributed to knowledge or developed existing theory or understanding.Please see the individual course pages to find out more.
Awarding Body
All degrees are awarded by the University of Lincoln, which is regulated by the Office for Students.
Research Fees
The University of Lincoln sets its fees in line with the UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) research fee support level. A full breakdown of research fees can be found on the individual course pages of this website.
Research Support Fees
Research students may be required to pay Research Support Fees (commonly known as Bench Fees) in addition to the standard tuition fee published by the University. This covers a wide variety of items or activities which are essential to carry out the research, including project costs, the cost of specialist resources, equipment or materials, travel and conference attendance, books and laptops, as well as access to any specialist collections that may be required to support research projects. These will be informed by the research proposal submitted and will be calculated on an individual basis.
Research Support Fees normally apply to science-based courses. However, please get in touch with the department you are applying to if you wish to discuss this prior to application. Any additional fees will be outlined in your offer letter, prior to accepting your place.
Additional Costs
In addition to the Research Support Fee, there may be additional costs such as materials for arts-based courses or field trips. If a work placement or trip forms part of your study, you will be required to fund any associated transport or travel costs.
Contact Us
If you have an questions about your postgraduate course or studying at Lincoln, please contact our Postgraduate team.
Enquiries
T:+44 (0)1522 886644
E: pgenquiries@lincoln.ac.uk



Undergraduate - What You Need to Know | Study at Lincoln | University of LincolnMaking an Informed Decision
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. To help you choose the course thats right for you, we aim to bring to your attention all the important information you may need.
Modules
The modules listed on our website course pages may include current modules and modules that are intended to run and are subject to change. In addition to the core modules all students on the course must study, there may be a range of optional modules which enable you to tailor your degree to your interests.
The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and may be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
Validation/Revalidation
subject to Validation' or 'subject to revalidation' on some course pages on our website. Please see the individual course pages to find out the current validation status of a course.", 'Staffing
During your studies you may be taught by a range of academics, including lecturers, demonstrators, technicians, senior lecturers, professors, practitioners, and visiting experts. You may also be supported in your learning by other students.
Contact Hours and On-campus Attendance
s wide range of teaching spaces for collaboration and group work.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way in which you will be assessed will depend on your chosen course. It may include coursework, written and practical exams, portfolio development, group work, or presentations. A full breakdown of current assessment methods can be found on the individual course pages of this website.The University of Lincolns policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.
Additional Costs
Depending on your course, there may be additional costs for purchasing specific clothing, materials, or equipment, undertaking fieldwork or field trips, or gaining experience through work placements. Where trips are part of an assessed core module, the cost of travel and accommodation is usually included in your fee and will be covered by the University. Where these are optional, you will normally be required to pay your own transport, accommodation, and general living costs. This also applies to placements in the UK or overseas, and studying abroad.
With regards to textbooks, the University provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and you will find that our extensive library holds either physical or virtual versions of core texts that you may be required to read. However, you may prefer to purchase some of these for yourself and you will be responsible for this cost.
The Turing Scheme
Students who choose the option of studying abroad during their course may be able to take advantage of the Turing Scheme  a UK government programme which provides an opportunity for eligible students to apply for funding to participate in study abroad placements. More information can be found at www.turing-scheme.org.uk.
Location of Study
Programmes are delivered primarily from our Brayford Pool Campus in central Lincoln, with the exception of our food manufacturing courses which are delivered at Holbeach in south Lincolnshire. Some students may also have access to facilities on our Riseholme Campus, a rural site located just a few miles north of Lincoln. Transport will be provided where this is an essential part of the course. For more details, visit www.lincoln.ac.uk/maps.
Prioritising Face-to-Face Teaching
At the University of Lincoln, we strive to ensure our students experience is engaging, supportive, and academically challenging. Throughout the Coronavirus pandemic, we have adapted to Government guidance to keep our students, staff, and community safe. All remaining Covid-19 legal restrictions in England were lifted in February 2022 under the Governments Plan for Living with Covid-19, and we have embraced a safe return to in-person teaching on campus. Where appropriate, face-to-face teaching is enhanced by the use of digital tools and technology and may be complemented by online opportunities where these support learning outcomes.
We are fully prepared to adapt our plans if changes in Government guidance make this necessary, and we will endeavour to keep current and prospective students informed. For more information about how we are working to keep our community safe, please visit our coronavirus web pages.
Contact Us
If you have an questions about your course or studying at Lincoln, please contact our Enquiries team.
Enquiries
T:+44 (0)1522 886644
E: enquiries@lincoln.ac.uk



[]


DSc Social Sciences | Study at Lincoln | University of LincolnHigher Doctorate
DSc Social Sciences
This Higher Doctorate degree may be conferred upon those judged by Academic Board to have distinguished themselves by their substantial and original contributions to the advancement of learning. The published work submitted for a Higher Doctorate must demonstrate that the candidate is a leading authority in their field, and has been involved in major innovations and new developments in that field.
How You Study
The Higher Doctorate is not a taught programme of study. Instead, a portfolio of published works with appropriate commentary and evidence of esteem and experience is submitted for review.
This award is only open to individuals who graduated from the University of Lincoln a minimum of 10 years ago or full-time members of University of Lincoln staff who have a minimum of 10 years standing and have been employed at the institution for at least four years.
How to Apply
All applications require the support of the appropriate Head of College. Applications should include the following:
Apply Online
Programme Fees
4,712
15,000
Full-time and part-time postgraduate research students will be invoiced the published set fee each academic year enrolled, up to the point of thesis submission. Upon first enrolment, the full set fee is payable.


