Ukraine Support Appeal | University of LincolnThe University of Lincoln has looked closely at what it can do as a higher education institution that would offer specific, significant, and practical help for people affected by the war in Ukraine.
This includes developing a package of support for university students and academics from Ukraine who arrive in the UK having had to leave their studies due to the conflict. Our aim is to offer a welcoming and supportive environment for people to continue their study and work in safety.
Support for Ukrainian Students
For students from Ukraine who are unable to continue their studies at their university in Ukraine, we can offer:
- A package of support including tuition fee waiver, accommodation bursary, and living costs bursary for up to 20 eligible students who would like to transfer to Lincoln, having had to leave their Ukrainian university, with the intention of completing their studies in Lincoln.
- Advice and guidance on immigration status, visas, tuition fees, and funding for any student from Ukraine considering continuing their studies in the UK.
Ukrainian students living in the Lincoln area (for example, under the Homes for Ukraine scheme) who are able to continue their studies remotely with their home universities can also access support from the University of Lincoln. This can include:
 Union.", 'Other Forms of Support
 Union, our University community is making donations of clothes and other items for charities working directly with displaced people from Ukraine.", "Students and staff are also supporting fundraising campaigns for the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) Ukraine Humanitarian Appeal and the University of Lincoln's Ukraine Students and Academics Support Appeal, which helps underpin our bursary support for Ukrainian students.", 'Fundraising Campaign
To ensure that those who are welcomed to our community have the support they need, the University launched a public fundraising campaign to provide bursaries to cover living costs.
Anybody who wishes to donate to the University of Lincolns Ukraine Students and Academics Support Appeal, no matter how much, can do so using the Universitys dedicated Just Giving page.
The University of Lincoln will use all money raised, now and in the future, to support those in need due to the conflict in Ukraine and other humanitarian crisis. All money donated will go to those seeking refuge and support.
University staff can donate through Payroll Giving, which is a simple and tax efficient way of fundraising. Full details can be found on the link here. Please enter University of Lincoln as your chosen charity. If staff have any questions, please contact payrollservices@lincoln.ac.uk.
Ukraine Support Appeal: Campaign Update
The University of Lincoln is pleased to be able to support an initial intake of 20 Ukrainian students eligible to continue their studies with us in 2022/23. We are grateful to everyone who has contributed so far to our Ukraine Students and Academics Support Appeal to help us provide a package of practical support for students and academics whose studies have been disrupted by the conflict in Ukraine.
Having reached our initial goal of supporting 20 students, we are currently unable to accept further applications under the scheme. We are exploring how the University can extend its offering to help a greater number of affected people as local and national support arrangements are developed. Students from Ukraine arriving in the UK can continue to get in touch with us and we will update them as soon as we are able to accept further applications under the scheme.

University of Lincoln
Useful Contacts
Student Support
Tel:+44(0)1522 837080
Email:studentsupport@lincoln.ac.uk
Student Wellbeing Centre
Telephone: +44(0)1522 886400
Email:studentwellbeing@lincoln.ac.uk


