University of Lincoln Virtual Classroom | Applicants and Offer Holders | University of LincolnUniversity of Lincoln Virtual Classroom
Our Virtual Classroom has been designed to offer a range of online educational resources and activities to help support our applicants and their schools throughout the year.
s Clara Amfo, Chris Packham CBE, andLove Island'sWes Nelson; and explore advice and guidance from our Education Liaison Team on everything from applying to university to finance and personal statements.", 'Bitesize Subjects
Our bitesize curriculum videos are designed to provide an insight into a wide range of different subject areas and topics. They aim to inspire young people to discover new areas of interest and help identify the subjects they might wish to study at university and beyond.
Great Reasons to Study at Lincoln
There are many great reasons why our students and staff are proud of the University of Lincoln, including our award-winning teaching, specialist facilities, and close links with industry.
British Science Week
British Science Weekis an annual celebration of all things science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. At the University of Lincoln, weused thisopportunity to showcase our expertise in these areas by creating a schedule of inspiring and interactive lectures.
Lincoln Live Talks
t able to tune into our previous Lincoln Live talks or would like to watch them again, you can! Catch up with a range of our guest speakers below.", 'Education Liaison Talks
Our Education Liaison team are here to help you in the process of joining university. Catch up with their video presentations below to find out more.

Lincoln Island
Discover our campus and find out more about studying at Lincoln through a fantasy video game developed by staff and students. In this free game you can explore a fictional version of our Brayford Pool Campus, built to scale but reimagined into a fantasy setting. The game offers the chance to interact with characters created by current students who will tell you about their experiences while completing quests designed to give you a feel for life at Lincoln.
Lincoln Island is available now to download from the Microsoft Store.
Find out More
Connect With Us on Social Media


