Creative Advertising
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years with Foundation Year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
W213
Academic Years
ll learn how to develop original ideas and bring them to life in the most compelling way while using your creativity and communication skills to change the way people think. ", "We'll explore conceptual thinking, copywriting, art direction, and the different types of media a professional advertising creative will need to know, as well as helping you present your ideas effectively and persuasively.  The course has close relationships with advertising agencies and brands around the world, so you'll also get to practise your skills with briefs from real clients.", 'This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry on to the full degree programme. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/.
Why Choose Lincoln
95% overall student satisfaction*
Learn from staff who are experienced advertising industry creatives 
Opportunities to work on live briefs and projects set by industry 
Take part in industry competitions and award schemes 
Take part in study visits to London and an optional trip to New York 
Graduates working in advertising agencies around the world 
*National Student Survey 2022
How You Study
Throughout a career-focused curriculum, students can develop the professional skills and knowledge and the digital literacy and teamworking abilities to produce original ideas through high-level creative thinking. Students can embrace the various creative advertising roles required throughout a wide range of advertising projects, working in collaborative teams.  
Tutor-led, student-led, and independent learning sessions are at the core of our teaching approach. The learning experience encourages students to push their creative thinking so that they embrace learning through failed ideas and concepts, as this is the path to innovative and original project solutions. This is alongside students learning to respond to advertising briefs which require a sound grasp of commercial communications, and the ability to identify and reach defined audiences. 
Through extensive practice in the studio, students can develop their strategic, conceptual, copywriting, planning, pitching, and creative problem-solving skills. In the final year, students are able to refine their portfolio of work and be part of a showcase of advertising campaigns across different communication channels.
The programme utilises a dynamic mix of delivery methods to make for an enriched and engaged student experience. Up-to-date digital blended teaching methods are used to support an education that reflects the current landscape.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations, or review of creative output.
Study Trips
s own expense. These optional trips are not graded.", 'Student Work Showcase
Explore Our Degree Show
Our degree show is an exciting opportunity for our Lincoln School of Design students to showcase their work both physically and digitally to the public and businesses. 
Student Design Awards
Lincoln School of Design students have a long history of winning and being shortlisted for international and national student design competitions, and the last few years have been no exception.
Specialist Facilities
Build Your Portfolio
Third-year students can complete a project designed specifically to build their profile and get them noticed by significant figures in the creative industries. The end of year show, which has previously been held at one of Londons most famous advertising agencies, enables students to showcase their portfolios and meet decision makers from top agencies across the country  providing a platform to begin their search for a role after graduation.
Meet the Graduates 
black cab book crit' idea, graduates Shannon Cripps and Beth Wood now work for the in-house creative team at Channel 4  picking up prestigious Cream and D&AD New Blood awards along the way.", 'Guest Speakers
The Creative Advertising Society holds industry talks and workshops in our Lincoln studio with high-profile guest speakers from advertising. Previous speakers have included Rory Sutherland, Vikki Ross, and Sir John Hegarty.
It is encouraging to see students overflowing with ideas that are both insightful, fresh and challenging. I have set the brief I gave to the Lincoln second years to a number of other courses, yet the work produced by the Lincoln students was head and shoulders above the rest. 
Simon Lloyd
Global Creative Director, adam&eveDDB
What Can I Do with a Creative Advertising Degree?
Some of our most recent Creative Advertising graduates have gone on to work in top creative companies around the world such as Spotify, Grey, adam&eveDDB, Droga5, Fallon, WCRS, Achtung!, Leo Burnett, and Ogilvy. Many take on roles in communications and marketing, or set up their own businesses, while others go on to study further at Master's or doctoral level.
Graduate roles have included Art Director, Content Creator, Strategist, Creative Producer, Junior Campaign Manager, Social Media Advertising Executive, Copywriter, Insights and Audience Planner, and Illustration Agent at destinations including Above+Beyond, AnalogFolk, Bare Conductive, Channel 4, Distract, Havas Helia, Havas LYNX, HTK, ITV, Karmarama, Lemonade Illustration Agency, McCann Worldgroup, Ogilvy, Saatchi & Saatchi, St. Luke's, Teads, The Drum, The Gate London, VCCP, VMLY&R, WCRS, Wieden+Kennedy, and Wunderman Thompson.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit, or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Standard workshop induction costs are covered by the University, as are some initial printing and material costs. However, depending on the media/materials chosen by the student, there may be additional costs incurred.
The Creative Advertising programme aims to run trips to London advertising agencies once during the second year of study and once or twice during the third year. These trips are optional and will not impact upon student grades. Travel costs for these trips are the responsibility of the student. These can vary, however students are all given ample notice.
The programme also aims to run a trip to New York advertising agencies once during the second year of study. This is optional and does not have an impact on any grades on the course. The cost of the New York trip is approximately 850 (based on recent figures). 
private view' entertainments budget, should they choose to do so. A figure of 200 is approximate and depends on the size of the year group and the number attending.", 'Other additional costs can include notebooks, A3 layout pads (approx. 5-10 each), and marker/fineliner pens (approx. 1-3 each).
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Creative Writing
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing
BA (Hons) Fine Art
BA (Hons) Graphic Design
BA (Hons) Illustration
