Accountancy and Finance
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 or 4 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
N400
Academic Years
Accountants play an integral role in the business world, providing the financial information needed to inform decisions at all levels of an organisation.
Our BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance can help you to take on real-world challenges by applying critical thought in the accountancy and finance discipline. You are able to gain a solid understanding of accountancy and finance and critically reflect on your learning, while developing the commercial awareness, problem-solving abilities, communication skills, and teamworking that are highly valued by employers. 
The course features two different pathways, with one offering exemptions from elements of the professional qualification for ACCA, CIMA, ICAEW, and AIA.  Students can choose which route they would like to pursue at the end of the first year. The content for both routes is the same with the main difference being the method of assessment employed.  For the exempt route there will be examinations as well as other forms of assessments, for the non-exempt route the assessments will be mainly non-exam based.
Why Choose Lincoln
Access to industry-standard Bloomberg Terminal
Currently accredited by main UK professional accountancy bodies
How You Study
The course aims to provide a comprehensive grounding in accountancy and finance theories and practice, together with the business acumen needed in a complex global financial world.
The study of accountancy and finance progresses through the programme so that you can obtain a critical grasp of core theory along with a thorough knowledge and skills of application and analysis related to these disciplines.  
During the programme, you will also explore key accounting and finance issues within the wider business context, and you can select from a range of options aligned to your own interests and career ambitions.
The exemptions pathway has been designed to support learners in becoming a professional accountant by obtaining a high level of exemption from professional body examinations.
The non-exemption route offers you opportunities to demonstrate a wide range  of skills, knowledge, and understanding during coursework assignments rather than written examinations.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module and will also be determined by which pathway is chosen. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. 
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'How you are assessed
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Accreditations and Exemptions
The course currently provides a pathway that allows exemptions from elements of examination for the following:
- Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)- Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA)- Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)- Association of International Accountants (AIA).
Depending on the exemptions sought, students may be required to undertake specific modules. Other exemptions are achieved upon completion of the course.
ACCA Exemption Calculator
CIMA Exemption Calculator
Bloomberg Terminal
Students can use our Bloomberg Terminal, which is designed to help industry professionals make better-informed investment decisions by offering the latest market news along with historical data and an international network to communicate securely and reliably. Bloomberg offers a practical resource for students to reinforce the theories they learn in lectures, and enable them to become familiar with the tools used by todays financial services professionals.
Professional PracticeYear
t have to pay tuition fees for this year, but will need to cover your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Studentswho complete the one-yearprofessional practice placement willbe awarded aBA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance (with Professional Practice). Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance, or equivalent exit award.
International Study Year
t have to paytuition fees for that year but will be required to cover your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Student Managed Investment Fund
Lincoln International Business School offers the Student Managed Investment Fund (LSMIF), which is an investment fund created, operated, and maintained by students within the school, with everything running within the real-world environment of finance.
One of only a handful of its kind in the UK, students will be managing real money with the objective of making positive returns while managing risk. Industry veteran and long-time lecturer Hao Quach can help support the students throughout, utilising his years of experience in all aspects of investment banking and 20 years teaching in many countries.
Student Awards
Each year the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales awards prizes to second year students who have excelled academically or made significant progress in key areas and skills that are vital for future accountants and business leaders. This award partnership is a recognition of how our degree is specifically designed to help our students develop the skills and techniques required by the accountancy profession, which can help them prepare for the workplace.
Ive received great teaching and amazing support over my degree. The lecturers make the content come alive by using real life examples and their own experiences.
Paige Robson
BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance
What Can I Do with an Accountancy and Finance Degree?
A degree in Accountancy and Finance can prepare students for a career as an accountant, personal financial manager, tax adviser, chief financial officer, and beyond. Previous graduates have progressed to roles at HMRC and at companies including PwC and Santander.
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs to include a grade 5 in Maths, a 4 in English and one further GCSE graded at 4 or above. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Distinction, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall.
s: Minimum of three to include a grade 5 in Maths, a 4 in English and one further GCSE graded at 4 or above. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Banking and Finance
BA (Hons) Business and Finance
BA (Hons) Business Economics
BSc (Hons) Economics
BSc (Hons) Economics and Finance
