MSc Social Work Advanced Professional Practice | Bespoke Training | University of LincolnTeaching and learning on this programme uses blended-learning methods. The core content delivery includes a combination of presentations, workshops, directed learning and practice based learning.
Weekly contact hours on this programme may vary depending on the individual module and the stage of study. Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in presentations and workshops.
The assessment methods on this programme will vary depending on the module. Methods include a presentation, a multiple choice examination, written portfolios and assignments.
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly  usually within 15 working days after the submission date.", 'The Practice Education 1 and Practice Education 2 modules and the PG Cert. Approved Mental Health Professional all require students to complete a placement. Those studying for the Approved Mental Capacity Professional (AMCP) module are likely to be required to shadow a practising AMCP for a minimum of one full assessment. Please note that students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation and general living expenses while completing a placement.

s Taught programme, you must complete 180 credit points.", 'Full time students will be invoiced for the programme in full upon initial enrolment.
For part-time students, tuition fees are payable each credit pointenrolled. To calculate your part-time fees, multiply the part-time fee per credit point by the number of credits you intend to complete within that academic year. This is usually between 60 and 90 credit points per year.
For example, if the fee per credit point for your programme is 38, and you enrol on 60 credits, the tuition fee payable for that academic year will be 2280.
For each course you may find that there are additional costs. These may involve specific clothing, materials or equipment required.With regards to text books, the University provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and you will find that our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that you are required to read. However, you may prefer to purchase some of these for yourself and you will be responsible for this cost.
Application Forms for the PQ Modules
If you have not studied any modules from this programme before please use theUniversity's Online Application System. Please be aware that, while it is possible to link completed modules from the former Interprofessional Practice award into the new programme, you will still need to complete the online application to apply for your first module from the new programme.
Pre-Application
Please ensure that prior to completing your application, you have had a discussion with your line manager and completed any internal training request processes, if applicable. You will also need to make arrangements for the payment of the course fees; for further details please see our Fees page.
Application
The New Students application form link will take you through to the University of Lincolns on-line postgraduate application tool, My Lincoln. Please complete all sections before you press Submit. If you find that you are unable to submit, please double-check all required fields are complete: you can check what information is outstanding by looking at the colour indicator next to each section heading  Green indicates that the section is complete, while Orange or Red show that there is still information to be added.
Important: Please be aware that, unless your highest level of qualification was issued by the University of Lincoln, we do need you to provide copies of supporting documents with your application, evidencing your highest academic qualification, together with evidence of your nationality, such as your passport or birth certificate. Applications cannot be processed without these, and this may result in you missing out on a place on your chosen course.
This will send you an automatically generated email to confirm your application has been submitted. The application goes straight through to the Universitys central Admissions department for initial checks and then is sent on to the Professional Development Centre for review. You will receive an email confirming receipt.
Confirmation of your place
As soon as your application has been approved you will receive confirmation of your place via email. In the event that a particular course does not receive enough applications for it to run, you will be notified straight away and if possible, offered a place on the next available date.
Two weeks before the course starts you will receive your joining instructions pack via email.
Enrolment
Enrolment for the University has now moved online. About a month prior to start of the course you will receive an email from our Student Administration team with instructions on completing the online enrolment process. As part of this you will be asked to check and update your personal details and upload a photo for your student ID card.
On day one of your course, you will complete enrolment with the University. You will be required to bring with you a recognised form of photo identification that confirms your nationality e.g. passport. Unfortunately, you will not be able to enrol without this and this could delay receiving access to university systems, including our online learning materials and the library.
Eligibility for the MSc SWAPP modules
For most modules, applicants are required to be qualified Social Workers, and have current registration with Social Work England. However, some modules are open to other professions. Please contact the programme lead for more information.
For the PG Cert AMHP modules and the Approved Mental Capacity Professional (AMCP) module applicants should be professionals from one of the following disciplines  social work, nursing, occupational therapy or psychology  and have an undergraduate degree level qualification or above.
Applicants should normally be employed by a service provider (in either Childrens Services or Adult Social Care) or in an education, health or social work related profession.
There is a minimum post-qualifying experience requirement for each module; this is specified for each on their individual module page.
Written Test
Applicants who have not undertaken study at a Postgraduate level before and whose undergraduate degree is 2:2 or lower, will be required to undertake a short written test. This can be submitted at any point in the application process however must be received by the Professional Development Centre, at cpd@lincoln.ac.uk, by no less than two weeks prior to the start date of the module applied for.
Details available from cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Analysing Professional Practice written test
Practice Education 1 written test
International students
Due to the part-time nature of all these courses and the requirements of the Tier 4 (General) student visa set out by the UK Home Office, we are unfortunately unable to consider applications from international students.
However if you are a non-UK resident social sector professional looking to gain advanced practice skills and expertise, you may be interested in the University of Lincolns Erasmus Mundus Master Advanced Development in Social Work programme, further details of which can be found here.
The following modules from the MSc Social Work Advanced Professional Practiceprogramme are also validated as stand-alone modules. If you would like to discuss commissioning a tailored cohort for one of these, please contact us atcpd@lincoln.ac.ukand ask to speak to the Centre Manager.
The Professional Development Centreis based at the University of Lincolns main campus in central Lincoln; however we are happy to deliver at a location convenient to you. In the past we have provided cohorts in Scunthorpe, York and Northallerton and Peterborough.
Generic
Mental Health
Adult
Children and Families
Practice Education
Leadership & Management
Master of Science
Q: What do I do if I am not sure which course to apply for?
A: In the first instance, please discuss this with your line manager and/or training manager. For advice from the Professional Development Centre, please email your query tocpd@lincoln.ac.uk.
Q: My employer will not fund my place- can I fund it myself?
A: The majority of our applicants are sponsored by their employers; however we do also welcome applications from self-funding students. Please contact the Professional Development Centrefor further information:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk.
Q: Is there a deadline for applying for a course?
A: We ask applicants to try to submit their applications more than two weeks ahead of the start date. This gives us time to process applications and confirm places in time. However if applications are received after this point and there are still places available then we will try to consider them. If you are in this position we would advise you to contact the Professional Development Centreatcpd@lincoln.ac.ukso we know to expect your application.
Q: I would like to apply for an individual module rather than the entire MSc Advanced Professional Practice in Social Work. How do I do this?
A: All the individual Post-Qualifying Social Work modules offered are listed under the umbrella of the MSc Social Work Advanced Professional Practice and can be studied as stand-alone modules. To apply please select the MSc in Advanced Professional Practice in Social Work from the drop-down list in the Course Selection section of the online Postgraduate Application form, and include a line in your personal statement indicating which module(s) and cohort you wish your application to be considered for.
Q: I am experiencing difficulties submitting the online application form  what help/advice is available?
A: Applicants are required to complete all sections and subsections of the Postgraduate Application form therefore missing information is the most common reason for being unable to submit it. You can check what information is outstanding by looking at the colour indicator next to each section heading  Green indicates that the section is complete, while Orange or Red show that there is still information to be added. Once you have successfully submitted your application you will receive an automatically-generated email confirmation from our Admissions department.
Q: What do I do if my personal details change i.e. address or email (for a change of name please see below) before I have enrolled with the university?
A: Email your change tocpd@lincoln.ac.uk.
Q: What do I do if my personal details change i.e. address or email (for a change of name please see below) after I have enrolled with the university?
A: You can update your student record via our student portal. You will have access to this following enrolment.
Q: I have changed my name since my initial application or enrolment. How do I inform the University of this change?
A: If you are based in Lincoln, please bring some evidence of the change of name e.g. a marriage certificate or legal document to the Student Support Centre and they will be happy to amend your student record. Alternatively please send a copy of your evidence to us, either via email tocpd@lincoln.ac.ukor via post to Professional Development Centre, Office SSB0206, Sarah Swift Building, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6 7TS.
Q: I need to withdraw my application before the course starts- what do I do?
A: Email the Professional Development Centreasap:cpd@lincoln.ac.uk.
Q: I cannot attend the first day or a later day on the course timetable, who do I contact?
A: Contact the Professional Development Centre:cpd@lincoln.ac.ukas soon as possible. Most modules will allow you to start if you cannot attend on day one. However the majority of the courses have a minimum attendance expectation of 80% and therefore you are advised to consider this prior to taking up an offer.
Approved Mental Capacity Professional (AMCP)
This module will meet the training requirements for a new role of Approved Mental Capacity Professional (AMCP). This role has been created by changes to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 which occurred in 2019.
Analysing Professional Practice
(15 credits, Core; PG Cert) This module provides an opportunity for students to demonstrate that they have made the transition from their initial professional qualification to being a professional, confident and competent practitioner able to take appropriate responsibility for their practice.
Practice Education 1
(30 credits, Option) The module is relevant for those who support, mentor and assess student social workers and others engaging in formal and informal learning or development activities. It equips practitioners with the necessary skills, values and knowledge to enable them to become effective Practice Educators. Practice Education 1 meets the requirements of Stage 1 of the Practice Educator Professional Standards.
Practice Education 2
Enabling Others') and meets the requirements for becoming a 'Stage Two Practice Educator' under the Practice Educator Professional Standards."]
