Fine Art
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years with Foundation Year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
W101
Academic Year
Fine Art focuses on the artist as a socially responsive, publicly-aware practitioner, operating within physical, intellectual, and digital networks and referencing local, national, and global artistic platforms.
 creative development and expression. It aims to enable students to extend their creative work and ideas into new areas. This includes opportunities to engage with students across the School of Creative Arts on site specific and interdisciplinary projects. It also offers specialist options in areas of applied fine art practices, such as teaching, health and community engagement, professional placements, and study abroad.", 'Students on the course are introduced to a range of professional and transferable skills. Academic staff are often practising artists and writers with national and international reputations, such as Dr Steve Klee whose work has been shown at LAM Gallery, Los Angeles, and Dr Alice Bell who has collaborated on projects with Damien Hirst and Sir Peter Blake among others. 
s visiting artists' programme. Recent speakers include Assemble (2015 Turner Prize Winners), Mark Titchner, Jordan Baseman, Cath Keay, and Joshua Sofaer.", 'The programme explores contemporary art that moves within and beyond the traditional gallery to embrace a range of non-traditional sites, with assessments designed to prepare students for professional life. The course emphasises individual creativity and artistic intelligence, and aims to introduce students to the fields of Live Art, installation and digital media, as well as catering for painting, sculpture, drawing, and printmaking.
At Lincoln, students have the opportunity to work both with and beyond a dynamic studio culture. The course aims to enable students to extend their creative work and ideas into new areas, including publicly engaged art. Students can choose to join study trips, which introduce significant artworks and the ideas behind them. Previous study trips have visited destinations in the UK and overseas.
This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry onto the full degree programme. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked in the top 20 overall in the UK*
Staff include practising artists and writers with international reputations 
Visiting artists deliver guest lectures and tutorials 
Access to studios, workshops, and an on-campus public gallery 
Join study visits to destinations in the UK and abroad 
Opportunities to exhibit your work 
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 84 ranking institutions).
How You Study
In the first year, students are encouraged to experiment with traditional media, digital practices, and live art in order to identify key areas of personal interest. This is alongside receiving a solid grounding in exploring the creative arts as a wider interdisciplinary concern integrated within gaining key academic core competencies.
The second year aims to guide students in the development of their individual practices and there are also opportunities to collaborate with other students from across the School of Creative Arts within interdisciplinary and off-site projects.
In the third year, professional practice modules offer students the ability to refine their individual development and reflective practice, culminating in their final-year degree shows.
s facilities, and focused studio tutoring in both group and one-to-one situations.", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment will include finished artworks and documentation, presentations, essays, catalogues, and evaluations.
Student Work Showcase
Exhibition of student work by Luke Pietnik.
People viewing a showcase of student work by Paige Whittaker.
Student work by Mark Chamberlain exhibited on campus.
Visiting Experts
 visiting artists programme. Recent speakers include Assemble (2015 Turner Prize winners), Ming Wong, Mark Titchner, Cath Keay, Jordan Baseman, and Joshua Sofaer.", 'Facilities
Field Trips
Students on this course may have the opportunity to undertake field trips. Mandatory field trip costs are covered by the University but optional study visits, to locations such as Venice, are at your own expense. In the past, students have enjoyed a fully-funded trip to Dartington to work collaboratively with other students from the Lincoln School of Creative Arts.
Networking
s networks have seen students gain residencies at the Art House in Wakefield, Mansions of the Future in Lincoln, and the Surface Gallery in Nottingham.", 'The Art of Wellbeing
Work from BA (Hons) Fine Art students support the healing and recovery of patients as it is integrated into Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trusts (LPFT) multi-million pound regeneration of the citys mental health wards.
Throughout my three years, I was challenged, supported, and believed in. This course has an equal balance in educating you within the arts while developing your practice as an artist. The support and the design of the course makes the idea of working professionally as an artist a reality.
Sophie Baker 
BA (Hons) Fine Art 
What Can I Do with a Fine Art Degree?
Lincolns Fine Art degree aims to empower students to develop technical, critical, and professional skills. It aims to prepare students to enter careers throughout the creative industries. This may include working as freelance artists, curators, administrators, and writers, as well as roles in art therapy and teaching.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Portfolios and Interviews
Successful applicants will be invited to an interview, where they will have the opportunity to go through their portfolio with a member of the academic team.
re right for you, and you are right for us. We understand they can be daunting, but try not to worry.", "A range of work is useful, but as a guide we would recommend that your portfolio should consist of no more than 10 to 15 pieces. We'd like to see a range of images and examplesof video, audio, or photographic work as applicable to the work you have made.", 'Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Most students will need to buy materials appropriate to their practice. These might include (but are not limited to): paint, wood, and other relevant materials. Materials costs for this course will depend on the medium you choose to work in, but will typically range from between 100 and 500 per year.
Students may benefit from a range of subsidised study trips (which include transport, accommodation and admission charges as appropriate), activities, and events which aim to benefit and enhance their studies and practices. 
Optional study trips may also be available, and the full costs of these will be incurred by the student where offered. These range from approximately 20 for a day trip to 400 for an international trip of between three and five days. All costs incurred need to be paid upfront. Participation in study trips is not graded.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Creative Advertising
BA (Hons) Creative Writing
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing
BA (Hons) Fine Art
