Biodiversity, Conservation and Nature Recovery
 | MSc | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
1 year
Start Date
September 2024
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Academic Year
The next decades will be pivotal in reversing the current trend of biodiversity loss and expanding and restoring degraded ecosystems, while ensuring people and nature are resilient and able to adapt to a changing climate.
The aim of MSc Biodiversity, Conservation and Nature Recovery is to develop advanced interdisciplinary understanding of the interconnections between the natural environment, ecosystems, human health, and wellbeing. On completion of this MSc programme, graduates are expected to be equipped with the necessary conservation skills, interdisciplinary outlook, and in-depth subject knowledge for employment in conservation-related subjects.
The programme offers evidence-based, practice-based, and interdisciplinary modules to prepare you for careers in the public, private, and third sector, in ecology and conservation. Knowledge is drawn from a number of disciplines including ecology, conservation, environmental, and social sciences. The major focus will be assessing the impact of human-induced ecosystem degradation and biodiversity loss from local to global scales, while exploring nature recovery and nature-based solutions as new and potentially transformative approaches to restore biodiversity. Particular emphasis will be put on understanding the interconnections underpinning these complex challenges and identifying solutions.
Why Choose Lincoln
A focus on the natural environment, ecosystems, human health, and wellbeing
Explore topics from a local to global scale
A residential field course to investigate biological phenomena in the field
Complete an independent research project in a specialist area
How You Study
Programme modules combine knowledge from all relevant disciplines, including ecology, conservation, physical, and human geography, environmental sciences, and human health to address the key themes of nature recovery, including climate change, urbanisation, contaminants, disease, food production, biodiversity, and ecosystem services.
Students undertake a residential field course which offers the opportunity to investigate biological phenomena in the field. You can investigate ecosystems, and the wider context of the anthropogenic impacts affecting them. Guided by staff, you will work to identify the key threats, challenges, and opportunities of a study area to develop evidence-based and practical knowledge.
Current potential visit sites may be in the UK or abroad. The course fees include the costs of the residential field course including transport, accommodation, and meals. Students may be required to pay for overnight stays, local travel, and food close to the destination outside of scheduled travel. Students may bring personal items of clothing and travel equipment. These costs will depend on what students choose to bring.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The programme may use a range of assessment types, ranging from exams, essays, group and individual presentations, field reports, projects, data modelling, and computational analysis of geographic and spatial data.
How to Apply
Postgraduate Application Support
ll need to complete on our How to Apply page. Here, you'll also be able to find out more about the entry requirements we accept and how to contact us for dedicated support during the process.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
Students should hold a second class honours degree or higher in ecology and conservation, zoology, biology, geography, environmental sciences, earth sciences, life sciences, or social sciences, or a related discipline.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-session English and Academic Study Skills courses. These specialist courses are designed to help students meet the English language requirements for their intended programme of study.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
Course Fees
You will need to have funding in place for your studies before you arrive at the University. Our fees vary depending on the course, mode of study, and whether you are a UK or international student. You can view the breakdown of fees for this programme below.
The University offers a range of merit-based, subject-specific, and country-focused scholarships for UK and international students. To help support students from outside of the UK, we offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Funding Your Study
Postgraduate Funding Options
s Loans to scholarship opportunities. You can also find out more about how to pay your fees and access support from our helpful advisors.", 'Career Development
Postgraduate study is an investment in yourself and your future. It can help you to further or completely change your career, develop your knowledge, enhance your salary, or even prepare you to start your own business. Postgraduate students at the University of Lincoln benet from inspirational teaching combined with high-quality facilities and learning spaces, great industry links, and unique research opportunities, all of which are designed to help you stand out from the crowd and make the most of your time with us.
Why Postgraduate Study?
Academic Contact
For more information about this course, please contact the Programme Leader.
Dr Graziella Iossagiossa@lincoln.ac.uk
Postgraduate Events
To get a real feel for what it is like to study at the University of Lincoln, we hold a number of dedicated postgraduate events and activities throughout the year for you to take part in.
