Biology
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years if taken with the optional sandwich year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C100
Academic Years
Biology is the science of life itself, exploring the structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, and distribution of living organisms. The BSc (Hons) Biology degree at Lincoln covers a diverse range of subject areas while allowing students to develop their own specialisms. The course includes opportunities for overseas field work to study living organisms in their natural environments. 
Students join a vibrant academic community in the Department of Life Sciences and can benefit from research-focused teaching by academics. There is an emphasis on practical work, with students conducting their own projects alongside academics and practising researchers. 
Overseas Field Course' module.", 'Biology is the science of life itself, exploring the structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, and distribution of living organisms. The BSc (Hons) Biology degree at Lincoln covers a diverse range of subject areas while allowing students to develop their own specialisms. The course includes opportunities for overseas field work to study living organisms in their natural environments. 
Overseas Field Course' module.", 'Why Choose Lincoln
Subject area ranked in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction*
Optional overseas field trip to locations around the world
Optional placement year
Taught by experienced research-active staff
Fully funded residential field trip in the UK
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 96 ranking institutions).
How You Study
Throughout this course, students are able to study the many facets of biology, develop an understanding of research methods, and apply their learning in the laboratory and in the field. 
The first year of this degree introduces students to the different elements of biology, including evolution, ecology, metabolism, microbial biochemistry, and genetics. In the second year, students can study a range of topics including molecular biology, animal health and disease, animal behaviour, clinical biochemistry and diagnostics, immunology, human ageing and disease, and conservation biology, alongside training in data handling and analysis.
In the third year, students can select from specialist areas including veterinary parasitology, applied biochemistry, cancer epidemiology and pathology, 21st century medicine, blood sciences, plant-animal interactions, soil biology, global change biology, animal cognition and welfare, palaeobiology and behavioural ecology, in addition to undertaking an individual research project to develop independent investigation skills. 
Teaching at Lincoln places a strong emphasis on students engaging actively with their studies from the outset. Students are encouraged to think of themselves as researchers and producers who can make a contribution to their field of study. Teaching and learning methods include lectures and practical classes, which cover the core subject matter and technical skills, supported by tutorials and seminars which allow students to develop, analyse, and present their own findings. Practical classes in the laboratory and field allow students to practise project management and data gathering, handling, and interpretation skills.
Students on this programme learn from academic staff who are often engaged in world-leading or internationally excellent research or professional practice. Contact time can be in workshops, practical sessions, seminars or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year. Tutorial sessions and project supervision can take the form of one-to-one engagement or small group sessions. There is also opportunity to take part in external visits and fieldwork.
The University of Lincoln provides outstanding lectures delivered by experienced and welcoming lecturers. Their passion for the subject reignited my love for Biology and motivated me to achieve my academic goals.
Shaun Betts
BSc (Hons) Biology
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework such laboratory exercises or reports, case studies, problem-solving exercises, essays, poster or oral group presentations, short answer and structured questions, and project reports. This is in addition to written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
Overseas Field Trip
There is an optional overseas field trip in the third year. This will provide the opportunity to do research in a novel environment and to study local plants and animals. Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, andMolise in Italy.
Optional field trips may incur additional costs, including flights. Students may also be required to pay for overnight stays, local travel, and food close to the destination if their flights arrive the day before the team are scheduled to meet.Students may bring personal items of clothing and travel equipment, some of which may be specialised for the environment they are travelling to, and recommended medicines and travel toiletries such as anti-malaria medication, vaccinations, insect repellent and sunscreen. These costs will depend on what you choose to bring.
Alongside a fully funded residential field trip in the UK, students on this course can take part in an optional overseas field trip in the third year.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Molise in Italy.
On each trip students are introduced to local flora and fauna, present a group project, and complete an identification test of plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates.
Optional Placement Year
All full-time students on this course may take an optional placement year between the second and third year of the programme. While these placements are student-led, you will be continuously supported by academic staff throughout. Placements provide the opportunity to gain workplace experience and a chance to hone your skills in a professional environment.While you are on an optional placement in the UK, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and meals costs.
Studying Biology at the University of Lincoln was a life changing opportunity, especially being able to conduct an overseas project in Ecuador. This course has given me the ability to explore numerous career possibilities in a friendly and forward-thinking university.
Jessica Dagley
What Can I Do with a Biology Degree?
This course is designed to equip graduates with the skills necessary to enter a range of scientific and non-science-based roles in agriculture, biotechnology, animal sciences, and environmental protection. A wide range of career paths are available to biology graduates including research and development, technical roles, science communication and publishing, and scientific sales and marketing. Some students choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit,  Merit or equivalent.
*not all modules are accepted. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk). 
BTEC Diploma Applied Science acceptable with other qualifications. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
T Level in Science accepted.  Health or Health Science are not accepted: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.   We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications. 
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications. 
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
ttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/lifesciences/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit.(*not all modules are accepted).
T Level in Science accepted: Merit(Health or Health Science are not accepted)
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology or Chemistry.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.   We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
MBio Biomedical Science
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science
BSc (Hons) Biochemistry
MBio Biochemistry
