Clinical Animal Behaviour
 | MSc | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
12 months full-time, 29 months part-time
Start Date
September 2024
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Academic Year
Clinical Animal Behaviourists work on veterinary referral, helping the owners of companion animals resolve behavioural problems through diagnosis of the problem behaviour and application of individual behaviour modification programmes.
s degree follows an evidence-based approach, which aims to develop students' theoretical knowledge and practical skills for the management of problem behaviour in companion animals. It is headed by a team of experts, including Europe's first veterinary behaviour professor, European and Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons specialist, Professor Daniel Mills.", "Teaching is informed by research and practice, and students have the opportunity to gain experience through material used in teaching from real cases seen in the Department of Life Science's veterinary behaviour clinic. The curriculum is closely aligned to the research conducted in the Department's Animal Behaviour Cognition and Welfare Group. Students are encouraged to develop research skills and may have the opportunity to work alongside academics on high profile projects, many of which are funded by research councils, charities, and commercial bodies.", "Due to the popularity of this course, we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. It is likely that applications received after April 2024 will be placed on a waiting list for consideration for the following academic year's entry.", 'Why Choose Lincoln
Takes an evidence-based approach
Led by a team of experts including Professor Daniel Mills
Accredited by the Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour
Informed by research and practice including real cases
Complete an MSc thesis under the guidance of experienced researchers
How You Study
The taught sessions for the MSc run on Mondays and Tuesdays throughout the academic year. If you are studying the course full-time, sessions will run on both Mondays and Tuesdays for full days (typically 9am-5pm) with time for a lunch break. Any off-site trips will occur within the typical day and on the same day as the module it relates to. 
For students wishing to study part-time, in the first year taught sessions will take place on a Monday. In the second year, taught sessions will then take place on a Tuesday.  After completion of the taught sessions in the second year, data collection for the thesis will usually occur. Therefore, the part-time course will take you just over 2 years to complete if you include the taught sessions and the thesis module. 
The thesis module (data collection and write up) for full-time students typically takes place between the end of the taught sessions and September of the same year. For those on the part-time route the thesis module (data collection and write up) will run from the end of the taught sessions until January the following year. During the thesis module it is important for you to meet with your supervisor, however, meeting are usually booked at mutually convenient times.
s virtual learning environment.", 'Students who enrol on the full-time programme should expect to receive 12 hours of contact time per week for the duration of the taught element of this course. Part-time students should expect to receive six hours per week.
As a general rule we advise allocating at least 15 hours per week for additional study per day you attend taught sessions. Therefore, if you are taking the full-time route, we would advise allocating at least 30 hours of your time away from taught sessions to complete further study (includes reading around the subject and preparing for assignments).
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
There are a variety of different assessment types on the course (spoken and written exams, coursework, and presentations). Assessments take place during both the first and second term. Assessments in the form of exams also take place at the end of each term. For the first term, exams occur towards the end of January/beginning of February. Exams for the second term usually occur towards the end of May/beginning of June, after the completion of the taught element.
How to Apply
Postgraduate Application Support
ll need to complete on our How to Apply page. Here, you'll also be able to find out more about the entry requirements we accept and how to contact us for dedicated support during the process.", 'Application Guidance
Applications typically open in September each year. You can apply for the course at any point throughout the year. However, when you apply may influence which year your application is considered for. For example, if you apply in October, your application will be considered for entry the following September/October. If you apply in February, if there are still places available, you will be considered for September/October of the same year.
s level requires a higher level of understanding, development of specialised knowledge, and greater independence in studying compared to undergraduate level.", 'On this course there is a large emphasis on peer-to-peer learning throughout. Given the range of different backgrounds and experiences of those who typically enrol on the course, there are many opportunities to learn from one another, for example, from sharing of experiences and perspectives on a topic. This means it is essential that those applying for this course enjoy learning from others in this type of environment and have the skills to participate.
We suggest you cover the following in your personal statement:
Enrolment
Enrolment usually occurs in September or October. The first term of taught sessions runs from enrolment through to mid January. The second term of taught sessions then starts in February and runs through until end of May/Beginning of June. The data collection of the thesis module starts in the second term and will run until the end of the summer for full-time students or until December/January for part-time students. This means that for full-time students the course will take around 12 months to complete, and for part-time students, the course will take just over 2 years to complete (including taught sessions and thesis).
Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
First or upper second class honours degree in Life Sciences or equivalent experience.
Students do not need an animal related degree in order to apply for this course. A good first degree regardless of the subject is important as this demonstrates ability as an independent  learner. However, a  good  grounding in  biology, biological  processes, and an understanding of scientific research methods and statistical methods is also important. These skills are often achieved through a science-based degree but can also be obtained through other routes. If you are unsure please contact us.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/  
Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page. https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/ 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-session English and Academic Study Skills courses. These specialist courses are designed to help students meet the English language requirements for their intended programme of study.
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
Course Fees
You will need to have funding in place for your studies before you arrive at the University. Our fees vary depending on the course, mode of study, and whether you are a UK or international student. You can view the breakdown of fees for this programme below.
The University offers a range of merit-based, subject-specific, and country-focused scholarships for UK and international students. To help support students from outside of the UK, we offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Funding Your Study
Postgraduate Funding Options
s Loans to scholarship opportunities. You can also find out more about how to pay your fees and access support from our helpful advisors.", 'Career Development
Our graduates are provided the opportunity to develop their practical, critical, and independent thinking skills alongside specialist knowledge of the development, diagnosis, and management of behavioural disorders and conflicts in companion animal species, in particular dogs and cats.
Postgraduate study is an investment in yourself and your future. It can help you to further or completely change your career, develop your knowledge, enhance your salary, or even prepare you to start your own business. Postgraduate students at the University of Lincoln benet from inspirational teaching combined with high-quality facilities and learning spaces, great industry links, and unique research opportunities, all of which are designed to help you stand out from the crowd and make the most of your time with us.
Why Postgraduate Study?
Academic Contact
For more information about this course, please contact the Programme Leader.
Dr Ambrose TinarwoATinarwo@lincoln.ac.uk
Postgraduate Events
To get a real feel for what it is like to study at the University of Lincoln, we hold a number of dedicated postgraduate events and activities throughout the year for you to take part in.
