Biotechnology
 | MSc | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
1 Year
Start Date
September 2024
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Academic Year
The MSc Biotechnology programme provides students with the opportunity to develop an advanced theoretical knowledge, understanding, and practical experience of modern molecular and systems biology approaches to emerging biotechnologies.
The course is designed to provide a grounding in core biotechnology, alongside specialist training in medical, industrial, environmental, and fermentation biotechnology, with the opportunity to complete a research project within one of these areas.
Staff within the Department of Life Sciences offer a wide range of expertise in a variety of disciplines including molecular, cell, and system biology, recombinant DNA technology, protein biochemistry, structural biology, fermentation, bioengineering, among many others. Students may also have opportunities to hear from external guest speakers working in the industry and other schools from across the University.
Why Choose Lincoln
A grounding in core biotechnology alongside training in specialist areas
A focus on theoretical knowledge, understanding, and practical experience
Hear from visiting speakers from industry
Emphasis on the development of professional and research skills
Complete a research project in a specialist area
How You Study
The programme includes a combination of lectures, workshops, laboratory practicals, IT classes, seminars, problem-based-learning group sessions, independent learning, and research projects. There is also an emphasis on the development of professional and research skills, which can enhance employability.
The first and second terms focus on introductory and specialist modules. Over the summer, students can progress to an independent research project within a biotechnology-related discipline.
Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures and seminars. For every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend at least two to three hours in independent study.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment is mainly conducted through coursework including literature reviews, problem papers, oral and poster presentations, and ultimately the preparation of a research dissertation for the research project. There is limited use of examinations/in class tests. Specific guidance on each assessment is provided and the programme includes specific training for the main type of assessment.
Studying Biotechnology at the University of Lincoln made me more confident in independent research. It was the perfect progression on from an undergraduate course in terms of critical thinking and problem solving.
Imogen Napper
MSc Biotechnology
Research Projects
As part of this course, students can undertake an independent research project within a biotechnology-related discipline. Independent research projects are often linked to research specialisms within the Department of Life Sciences. These specialisms currently include microbiology and biotechnology, cancer and ageing, evolution and ecology, diabetes, metabolism and inflammation, and animal behaviour cognition and welfare.
Meet the Graduate
Andy Tomlin, MSc Biotechnology
After completing his BSc (Hons) Forensic Science programme, Andy studied for his MSc in Biotechnology before progressing into industry roles as a microbiologist and food microbiologist specialist. He is now a Process Development Technician at the Gene Therapy Innovation and Manufacturing Centre (GTIMC) at the University of Sheffield.
How to Apply
Postgraduate Application Support
ll need to complete on our How to Apply page. Here, you'll also be able to find out more about the entry requirements we accept and how to contact us for dedicated support during the process.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
First or second class honours degree in a relevant subject.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-session English and Academic Study Skills courses. These specialist courses are designed to help students meet the English language requirements for their intended programme of study.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
Course Fees
You will need to have funding in place for your studies before you arrive at the University. Our fees vary depending on the course, mode of study, and whether you are a UK or international student. You can view the breakdown of fees for this programme below.
The University offers a range of merit-based, subject-specific, and country-focused scholarships for UK and international students. To help support students from outside of the UK, we offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Funding Your Study
Postgraduate Funding Options
s Loans to scholarship opportunities. You can also find out more about how to pay your fees and access support from our helpful advisors.", 'Career Development
The biotechnology industry recruits qualified individuals for a broad range of roles, from sales and marketing, to research and development, manufacturing, and quality control and assurance. Research and diagnostic laboratories, either public or private, also recruit individuals with advanced knowledge on current biotechnology aspects and who are trained in modern biotechnology techniques.
To help enhance employability, students are able to access training and support to develop a broad range of professional and research skills, including science communication and dissemination, scientific writing, and career planning.
Academic Contact
For more information about this course, please contact the Programme Leader.
Dr James Flint JFlint@lincoln.ac.uk
Postgraduate Events
To get a real feel for what it is like to study at the University of Lincoln, we hold a number of dedicated postgraduate events and activities throughout the year for you to take part in.
