Biomedical Engineering
 | BEng (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
H780
Academic Years
Biomedical engineering is a multidisciplinary field that applies engineering principles to biology, medicine, and healthcare. From development of medical devices to creating advanced digital healthcare technologies, the work of biomedical engineers is to provide engineering solutions that improve human health. 
This research-informed programme aims to develop industry-ready graduates with the ability to conceive, design, implement, and deliver sustainable solutions for modern society. 
Project-based learning is a key feature of the programme. Students can undertake team-based engineering projects to address societal needs in the first and second years. Students will also have the opportunity to deliver an engineering solution with the consideration of environmental, social, and economic sustainability.
Why Choose Lincoln?
Regular visits from professional engineers and industry experts
Opportunities to spend an additional year in industry
Extensive project-based learning
Industry links offer opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruitment
Specialist purpose-built facilities and equipment
A range of optional modules to choose from
How You Study
In the first year, students can study the common foundations of engineering principles, human anatomy, and the physiology of the human body. In the second year the focus moves to specialised biomedical engineering topics, while the third year offers career focused modules designed to support students in meeting the needs of future employers.
Topics include digital prosthetics, biomedical robots for personal care, medical implants, medical imaging, medical ethics, clinical trials, and regulations. Extra-curricular activities are also available through Lincoln Innovation Hub to help students think, innovate, and build while stimulating their innovation and entrepreneurship skills. Students can access a range of support to help develop their skills, ideas, and ventures at any stage of development and across a wide range of disciplines.
The course is delivered through a combination of classroom and lab-based sessions, design challenges, and business innovation and entrepreneurship activities, to help develop the core skills that students will require as future engineers. Students can also benefit from regular visits from professional engineering and industrial experts, offering an insight into the needs of industry.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment on the Biomedical Engineering programme focuses on measuring and assessing engineering technical and analytical skills as well as professional soft skills including oral and written communication, team working, lifelong learning, problem-solving, project management, and planning and organisation.  
Students are continuously assessed throughout the course through a wide range of assessments methods including examinations, practical reports, project portfolios, individual and group presentations, individual group project work, and computer based assessment.
Placements
A sandwich option is available on this programme, providing you with the opportunity to spend a year in industry. You are encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently, however tutors may provide support and advice to those who require it during this process. While undertaking placements, you are responsible for your own travel, living, and accommodation costs.
What Can I Do with a Biomedical Engineering Degree?
Biomedical engineering represents a new area of medical research and product development, with biomedical engineers working to pave the way for new methods of helping to treat injuries and diseases. As medicine is a field with vast numbers of specific disciplines, there are many different sub-fields in which biomedical engineers may work. Some work to improve and develop new machinery, such as robotic surgery equipment, while others endeavour to create better, more reliable replacement limbs (or parts which help existing limbs function better, such as joint replacements).
Biomedical engineers may become involved in a multitude of different roles including the design of medical devices, modelling and simulation of human physiology and anatomy, supporting hospitals in clinical and financial governance of existing medical equipment, development of artificial organs, computer-simulated or image-guided surgery, robot-assisted surgery, development of orthopaedic implants, medical imaging, assistive technologies, and mobile and e-health.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points from Maths.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit in Engineering
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications. 
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Maths.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
T Level in Engineering: Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
BEng (Hons) General Engineering
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
BEng (Hons) Mechatronics
BEng (Hons) Biomedical Engineering
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
MEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
MEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
