Doctorate of Business Administration
 | DBA | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Part-time
4-7 years
Typical Offer
See More
Academic Year
The Doctorate of Business Administration is an online doctoral research programme of equivalent standing to the traditional Doctor of Philosophy. It features an integrated and structured programme of online study aimed at current and future leaders and managers who want to conduct original research relating to their professional context or area of managerial or business research practice. 
s research, learning, and contribution to knowledge.", 'Throughout the programme, candidates will be part of a diverse, supportive, and intellectually challenging research environment in Lincoln International Business School. In addition to the programme requirements, they are encouraged to engage in broader postgraduate training opportunities, present their work to academic audiences, and communicate the significance of their research to colleagues and peers.
s ability to continue to undertake pure and/or applied research and development at doctoral level.", 'Key Features
Conduct independent, original, and academically significant research
Be part of a diverse and supportive research environment 
Supervision and support from expert academic staff
Benefit from training courses to develop key research skills
Online delivery via weekly workshops 
How You Study
The taught stage of the programme  includes the following online modules:
- Becoming a Responsible Business Researcher - Research Philosophy - Advanced Quantitative Methods - Advanced Qualitative Methods- Developing Your Research Project 
The thesis stage of the programme will require students to work independently, with the guidance of a supervisory team to deliver and present a final thesis for examination.
The programme is delivered online via weekly workshops during the taught phase. In addition, students will meet with their Director of Studies regularly and are expected to attend two online study days.
How you are assessed
The programme features a range of assessment methods, including written assessments and oral presentations of research. The final thesis is examined in a viva voce oral examination.
How to Apply
Postgraduate Research Application Support
ll need to complete on our How to Apply page, which also features contact details for dedicated support with your application.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
s Honours degree (normally equivalent to a UK First Class or 2:1)- A Master's or MBA - A minimum of six years full-time management experience, showing significant career progression- Spoken and written English-language competency equivalent to IELTS: 7.0 or TOEFL: 623 paper-based (or 106 internet-based). ", 'These tests are not required as standard; however, all English language skills are automatically assessed through the nature of the admissions process and you would be advised on an individual basis if you were required to provide further evidence of your competency.
In limited circumstances, there is a degree of flexibility on some aspects of these requirements. This will be at the discretion of the Programme Leader.
Programme Fees
You will need to have funding in place for your studies before you arrive at the University. Our fees vary depending on the course, mode of study, and whether you are a UK or international student. You can view the breakdown of fees for this programme below. Research students may be required to pay additional fees in addition to cover the cost of specialist resources, equipment and access to any specialist collections that may be required to support their research project. These will be informed by your research proposal and will be calculated on an individual basis.
Funding Your Research
Loans and Studentships
s and Doctoral Loans, to research studentship opportunities. You can also find out more about how to pay your fees and access support from our helpful advisors.", 'Research at Lincoln
Through our research, we are striving to change society for the better. Working with regional, national, and international partners, our academics are engaged in groundbreaking studies that are challenging the status quo. We also understand the importance of providing the best possible environment for pursuing research that can support our communities and make a tangible difference to the world around us.
