Business with Entrepreneurship
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
N1ED
Academic Year
Great businesses begin with great ideas, and they have a better chance of flourishing with guidance from experienced professionals in a supportive environment.
BA (Hons) Business with Entrepreneurship at Lincoln is designed for students who want to learn about business management and theory to help them start their own business or acquire the key employability skills desired by industries and organisations.
This course offers the opportunity to study business law, ethical and socially responsible entrepreneurship, the principles of business and operational management, e-business, and marketing. It encourages students to put their learning into practice within a structured programme of theoretical scholarship.
Why Choose Lincoln
Hands-on experience during a professional practice year
Utilise our on-campus business incubation centre
How You Study
Initially, students can learn the foundations of small business development within an entrepreneurial context. They are encouraged to work in a creative and strategic way to develop a business plan by themselves or with a group of fellow students. 
With guidance from tutors, students are encouraged to develop ideas for their own businesses in the second year, and start up their business in the third year. They are expected to spend at least two days a week running their business, and are able to tailor their degree by choosing from optional modules that specifically interest them.
The programme is also designed to accommodate the interests of students who do not want to start a business during their study but want to gain the necessary entrepreneurial skills and competencies to seek paid employment.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Sparkhouse Business Incubation Centre
s on-campus business incubation centre, Sparkhouse, which offers a range of resources and facilities for start-ups, along with opportunities to share knowledge and ideas with other entrepreneurs.", 'Professional PracticeYear
t have to pay tuition fees for this year, but you will need to cover your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Studentswho complete the one-yearprofessional practice placement willbe awarded aBA (Hons)Business with Entrepreneurship(with Professional Practice). Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons) Business with Entrepreneurship, or equivalent exit award.
International Study Year
t have to paytuition fees for that year but will be required to cover your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'What Can I Do with aBusiness with Entrepreneurship Degree?
Business with Entrepreneurship graduates may choose to continue running the businesses they start while on the course or create new ventures. Others may use their entrepreneurial and business management skills as business development managers within organisations in the private, public, and third sectors.
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit, or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Business
BA (Hons) Business and Management
BA (Hons) Business Economics
BA (Hons) Business Management
BA (Hons) Business with Entrepreneurship
BA (Hons) International Business Management
BA (Hons) Business and Finance
