International Business Management
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Part-time
N/A
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
NR1X
Academic Years
Global connections and the ability to strike deals across national boundaries are at the heart of the worldwide economy, and this course aims to provide graduates with a solid grasp of international business processes and mechanics.
The programme provides a grounding in business and management topics, and offers opportunities to develop an expertise in international business.  You can study a range of topics including business environment, trade and international business, modern languages, cross cultural management, human resource management, and strategy.
Why Choose Lincoln
Hands-on experience during a professional practice year
Learn a foreign language at no extra cost
Choose modules aligned to your personal interests
Accredited by the Chartered Management Institute
How You Study
The first year introduces you to the topics of marketing, economics, and international business, while developing independent critical thinking skills. The second year progresses to cover aspects such as European business environment, operations management, ethics sustainability, and international business environment.
s exchange programme. Previous students have enjoyed placements in North America, Mexico, France, Germany, Malta, Italy, Spain, Romania, Finland, and China. Students who choose to study abroad are responsible for covering their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'In the final year, you are able to choose from a range of modules to reflect your own interests, including financial management for business, crisis management, digital marketing and E-commerce, and global competition and regulation.
Students have the opportunity to learn or improve a modern language, including French, German, Spanish, Italian, Mandarin Chinese, and Business English, at no extra cost. The language studied is normally related to the country that is chosen for a study placement. Students can start most of the languages on offer in Year 1 as a beginner, intermediate, or advanced level, depending on their background in their chosen language.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Accreditation
The course is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI). Students completing the degree can achieve a Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership from the CMI. As Affiliate Members of the CMI, you have access to CMIs business mentoring scheme, career development centre, and professional learning resources to help develop professional expertise and to build relationships with industry throughout your degree.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. 
The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Professional PracticeYear
t have to pay tuition fees for this year, but you will need to cover your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Studentswho complete the one-yearprofessional practice placement willbe awarded aBA (Hons) International Business Management(with Professional Practice). Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons) International Business Management, or equivalent exit award.
International Study Year
t have to paytuition fees for that year but will be required to cover your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Studying a degree that has an international perspective was very important to me. As a foreign student, I enjoyed studying all my modules with a focus on multiple work and business cultures. My degree prepared me for real-life scenarios as recently after graduation, I started working with an American company.
Valeria Mndez
BA (Hons) International Business Management
Study Abroad
Students on this course have the chance to spend a term learning at an overseas university as part of our exchange programme. The study placement takes place in the second year. Students share classes with local students, allowing the opportunity to examine the nature of their chosen subject area in the host country, as well as the chance to socialise in another culture.
Previous students have enjoyed placements in North America, Mexico, France, Germany, Spain, Romania, Finland, and China. Students who choose to study abroad are responsible for covering their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Learn a Modern Language
An integral part of the course is the option to learn or improve a modern language. Languages available include French, German, Spanish, Italian, Mandarin Chinese, and Business English Communications. The language studied is can be related to the country that is chosen for a study placement.
t have been possible for me without studying this course.", 'George Broadhurst
What Can I Do with an International Business Management Degree?
Our BA (Hons) International Business Managementis designed to prepare graduates for careers in diverse areas of business. Past students have progressed to roles such as recruitment consultant, operations manager, international wealth adviser, business analyst, and business development manager, while others have continued their studies at postgraduate level.
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
T Level: Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac....andacademicstudyskills/
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Business
BA (Hons) Business and Management
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing
BA (Hons) Business Economics
BA (Hons) Business with Entrepreneurship
BA (Hons) Business and Finance
