Chemistry for Net Zero
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Validation
UCAS Code
F155
Academic Year
Our Chemistry for Net Zero course aims to equip students with the knowledge, skills, and tools necessary to address the challenges of achieving a net-zero carbon future. 
This modern, research-informed programme focuses on exploring sustainable and environmentally-friendly approaches within the field of chemistry. Students can develop an understanding of the principles and applications of green chemistry, renewable energy, carbon capture, and other technologies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
The course promotes an integrated experience embracing knowledge, skills, and work experience. Although grounded in the fundamentals of chemistry, this programme includes elements of professional practice throughout. It aims to equip students with the understanding and experience to contribute to the development of innovative solutions that promote sustainability, mitigate climate change, and support the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked 3rd in the UK for student satisfaction*
Excellent facilities for teaching and hands-on research
Small group teaching and innovative team-based learning
A modern chemistry course, tailored to real-world applications
Focus on professional practice to improve career prospects
Opportunities to engage with staff on research projects 
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 53 ranking institutions)
How You Study
Students can study core chemistry modules, alongside specialised net zero modules, gaining valuable skills and expertise in areas such as green chemistry, renewable energy, and carbon capture. 
Students have the opportunity to be involved with research and innovation, and industry-engagement with both regional and national companies. This programme has been especially designed to support the transfer of graduates into the work environment or onto academic research programmes.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Skills Development and Professional Practice
Our Chemistry courses have an embedded explicit skills development programme through the professional practice modules. The programme delivers a systematic programme in skills development, which includes CV writing and interview skills. The modules exemplify the application of chemistry into key employment sectors and present chemistry through an integrated approach.
Industry Challenges
A series of themed industry challenges are co-delivered during the professional practice modules through industry partnerships with multi-national and SME organisations representing the analytical, formulation, pharmaceutical, and energy and environmental sectors.
After systematic project planning and management training, students can devise and present technical proposals in response to the challenge. After consultation and feedback from a joint academic and industry panel, students can execute project plans and report within industry standard methods. The professional practice modules aim to prepare students for placements and future employment.
Placements
Students may have the opportunity to undertake placements during their degree. When students are on an optional placement in the UK or overseas or studying abroad, they will be required to cover their own transport and accommodation and meals costs.
Placements can range from a few weeks to a full year if students choose to undertake an optional sandwich year in industry (where available). Students are encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently. Tutors may provide support and advice to students who require it during this process.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points in Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
*not all modules are accepted. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Chemistry.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
What Can I Do with a Chemistry for Net Zero Degree?
Chemistry graduates may pursue a wide range of science-related careers in sectors including energy, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, and consumer and personal care products. This course aims to equip graduates with extensive analytical and mathematical skills which are relevant to roles in finance, management, science-based marketing and journalism, education, and academic research. Some graduates may choose to continue their studies at doctoral level.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Biochemistry
BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Education
BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Mathematics
BSc (Hons) Forensic Chemistry
BSc Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development
MChem Chemistry
MChem Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development
MChem Chemistry for Net Zero
MChem Chemistry with Education
MChem Chemistry with Mathematics
MChem Forensic Chemistry
