Classical Studies
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Part-time
6 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
Q820
Academic Years
Classical Studies at Lincoln offers the opportunity to explore and examine the history, culture, and language of the ancient Greek and Roman worlds to discover how they have influenced and shaped the society in which we live today. 
BA (Hons) Classical Studies is an interdisciplinary degree programme. Students have the opportunity to study the ancient world alongside experts in history and archaeology, the history of art and architecture, heritage and conservation, literary and cultural studies, philosophy, and English and drama. The curriculum reflects the variety and richness of research and teaching within the School of History and Heritage, and the College of Arts more widely.
The city of Lincoln takes its name from Lindum Colonia: a Roman legionary fortress established in the middle of the first century AD which became a settlement for retired soldiers a generation later. Above and below ground it preserves traces of this history, from fragments of walls and aqueducts to the street plan itself. Traffic still travels through the Newport Arch, its third-century gate, while the University is situated on the Brayford Pool, an inland port with remains of the Roman-period waterfront, connected to the River Trent.
s archaeological museum to which we have privileged access.", 'Classical Studies at Lincoln offers the opportunity to explore and examine the history, culture, and language of the ancient Greek and Roman worlds to discover how they have influenced and shaped the society in which we live today. 
s archaeological museum to which we have privileged access.", 'Why Choose Lincoln
Subject is ranked sixth in the UK for student satisfaction*
The historic city of Lincoln provides the ideal backdrop to your studies
Privileged access to the city's archaeological museum, The Collection
A wide range of optional modules
Study abroad at one of our partner institutions around the globe
Undertake work placements to gain experience
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 22 ranking institutions) 
How You Study
The first year of the degree is designed to provide a solid foundation in the study of the ancient world. It commences with introductory modules in Greek and Roman history and culture, Classical art, archaeology, literature, and the Latin language. These provide orientation in the handling of textual, visual, and material evidence from Antiquity, and particularly in the sensitive reading of written sources. Alongside modules in critical thinking, writing, and historiography, these foundation modules aim to develop the skills necessary for students to chart their own path through the balance of the degree programme.
In the second year, all students take an introductory module in Classical reception, while beginning their apprenticeship in detailed engagement with a Classical source and the design of an independent research project. In addition, there is a broad range of optional modules, based on the research specialisms of our academic staff, in the history, art, archaeology, and language of the Classical world (including Greek), as well as its varied cultural legacies in medieval, early modern and modern Europe, and beyond.
Third year students can engage in sustained study of and commentary on a text, object, or site from the Classical world, and produce an extended piece of independent research on a topic of their choice under the supervision of one of our team. In addition, there is a further selection of optional modules at a more specialist and research-intensive level. Students are encouraged to choose according to their interests.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Assessments include written assignments (source analyses, commentaries, reports, research essays); in-class presentations; in-class; seminar participation.
Take a tour of our historic city!
Tour the magnificent city of Lincoln with two of our students as they talk you through some of the historic highlights Lincoln has to offer.
Placements
Students on this course may have the opportunity to pursue a work placement in the summer between the second and third years of the course, with a dedicated module for write-up in the first term of third year.
The placement enables you to gain practical experience of the workplace and students will normally define, plan, and undertake a specific project while on placement. Tutors may provide support and advice to students who require it during this process. In addition, you can experience of a range of tasks appropriate to sector-specific professional skills
When you are on an optional placement in the UK or overseas, or studying abroad, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and general living costs. Placements can range from a few weeks to a full year.
Study Abroad
Classical Studies students have the opportunity to spend a term studying abroad at one of the Universitys partner institutions in North America or Europe. Studying abroad is an opportunity to develop both academically and personally. In addition to academic study, study abroad can offer enhanced sporting and cultural activities, alongside the basic experience of adapting to, and working effectively within, a different academic culture. While studying abroad, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and general living costs.
What Can I Do with a Classical Studies Degree?
Undertaking a Classical Studies degree can develop skills in textual and visual analysis, translating and interpreting, thinking critically, and presenting complex information with clarity and authority. Graduates may find employment in museums and galleries, publishing and administration, teaching and research, and in other areas such as advertising, consultancy, and public relations. Students who wish to pursue academic careers can progress with studies at Masters or PhD level. Some students may choose law conversion, a teaching qualification, or other professional training.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also be required to have at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above (or equivalent), including English.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
 BA (Hons) Conservation of Cultural Heritage
BA (Hons) English and History
BA (Hons) History
BA (Hons) Modern History
BA (Hons) Philosophy
