Computer Science
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 - 4 years
Part-time
6 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
G403
Academic Years
Society is in the midst of a digital revolution, from the smartphones we use to navigate our daily lives to the advances in artificial intelligence set to transform global industries.
 studies are at the forefront of research in the field and meeting the needs of the computing industry. In addition, students are encouraged to work with academics on research projects.", 'The course is designed to provide a broad foundation in computer science and provides students with the chance to develop the mathematical, analytical, and problem-solving skills required to succeed in the challenging and exciting modern computing industry. The degree covers digital technologies such as big data, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, and robotics, which are currently driving advances in all aspects of the modern world. Those with expertise in these areas of computer science are finding employment and developing careers in a wide range of sectors such as finance, healthcare, telecommunications, power and energy, and cyber security.
Why Choose Lincoln
Access to a range of specialist equipment
Focus on cutting-edge topics
Gain industry recognised qualifications at no extra cost
Optional placement year
Undertake individual projects on a topics of interest
How You Study
In the first year, students have the opportunity to study the fundamental areas of computer science. This includes operating systems, maths for computing, and computer architectures.
The second year aims to build on this foundation, covering artificial intelligence, database systems and networking, with industry certification opportunities available to students for topics such as database systems, networking, and software development. Students will also have the opportunity to work on a group project in the Team Software Engineering module.
In the third year, students study topics such as machine learning, big data, and parallel programming. Additionally, students can choose a number of optional areas of study that are of specific interest, such as autonomous mobile robotics, logic and computation, cross-platform development, or cyber security. Third-year students will also have the opportunity to undertake a substantial individual project on a topic of interest under the supervision of an expert in the field.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
This course is assessed through a variety of means, including in-class tests, coursework, projects and time-constrained assessments. The majority of assessments are coursework-based, reflecting the practical and applied nature of computer science, and in many instances are informed by the types of tasks currently undertaken in industry.
Special Features
There is a range of equipment for loan, including Raspberry Pi devices, smartphones, robots, and virtual reality equipment such as HTC Vive and Oculus Quest.Students on this course are taught by academics whose research has been internationally recognised. Researchers in the School include Marc Hanheide, Professor of Intelligent Robotics and Interactive Systems, and Nigel Allinson MBE, Distinguished Professor of Image Engineering, who has been supported with a 3.3 million grant from the UKs Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council for advances in medical imaging.The School is also a Microsoft Imagine Academy member and Cisco Academy member, which gives students the opportunity to gain industry recognised qualifications such as Microsoft Technology Associate and Cisco certification at no additional costStudents will also have the opportunity to participate in various extracurricular activities such as hackathons, game jams, and summer research projects.
The Computer Science programme at Lincoln has done an excellent job of providing a diverse range of topics relevant to the current industry. This has not only increased my confidence in my ability to enter the workplace, but it has also encouraged me to develop and pursue my own specific interests.
Emma Baskerville
BSc (Hons) Computer Science
Placements
This programme is optionally available in a sandwich mode variant. If students choose the sandwich placement option, they take a year out in industry between the second and third year. This provides the opportunity to gain industrial experience. Students are supported throughout their placement, which can be overseas. Students are required to pay for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while on placements and study visits. There is no tuition fee for the placement year. There are also opportunities to take shorter work placements, for example over the summer period, and to be involved in systems development projects for real industry clients.
What Can I Do with a Computer Science Degree?
This degree aims to equip graduates with the mathematical, analytical, and problem-solving skills that make them well-placed for computer and technology-related roles across a range of sectors. Recent graduates have secured roles at GCHQ and major companies including IBM, Google, Microsoft, CGI, Sky, Samsung, BT, and Accenture. Some graduates may wish to pursue academic careers and study at postgraduate level.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ 
International students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
________________________
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence
BSc (Hons) Games Computing
BSc (Hons) Games Computing with Virtual and Augmented Reality
BSc (Hons) Robotics
MComp Computer Science
MComp Games Computing
