Electrical and Electronic Engineering
 | BEng (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
H785
Academic Years
Electrical engineering is essential to the modern world, encompassing everything from energy and automation through to communications and transport. The BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme is designed to equip students with the skills needed by industry to deliver sustainable solutions, and to succeed as the engineers of the future.
s School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching. Our innovative industrial collaborations have led to a rich programme of work experience opportunities, including at Siemens Energy in Lincoln.", 'Throughout the course, there are extensive opportunities at each level of study to engage in hands-on projects and benefit from learning in an environment where our academics and researchers are at the forefront of the industry and have expertise in a variety of electrical and electronic engineering disciplines. The curriculum support students to bridge the gap between university and the professional world by developing skills that are essential within the industry.
Strong links exist between our Mechanical and Electrical programmes, enabling our students to develop the strong cross-disciplinary focus necessary for the modern engineer, and an understanding of industry perspectives.
s School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching. Our innovative industrial collaborations have led to a rich programme of work experience opportunities, including at Siemens Energy in Lincoln.", 'Throughout the course, there are extensive opportunities at each level of study to engage in hands-on projects and benefit from learning in an environment where our academics and researchers are at the forefront of the industry and have expertise in a variety of electrical and electronic engineering disciplines. The curriculum supports students to bridge the gap between university and the professional world by developing skills that are essential within the industry.
Why Choose Lincoln
Accredited by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET)
Opportunities to spend an additional year in industry
Extensive hands-on project work
Strong industry links offer opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruitment
Specialist purpose-built facilities and equipment
A range of optional modules to choose from
How You Study
The course covers core electrical and electronic engineering subjects and provides opportunities to specialise in advanced electronics, power and energy, and control. Teaching and learning on the programme empower problem- and project-based learning to equip students with relevant in-depth knowledge, and essential practical and transferable skills that are a core requirement of the industry.
The first and second year of the Electrical and Electronic Engineering programmes offer a foundation in engineering theory and practice. Students can develop fundamental knowledge in areas such as robotics, semiconductor device physics, electrical technology, matter and interactions, engineering mathematics, and numerical computation.
Specialist modules in the third year include Power Electronics, Robotics and Automation, and Internet of Things and Smart Electronics. At each stage, students have opportunities to develop their engineering skills on real-life problems through project-based learning opportunities.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment methods on the Electrical and Electronic Engineering programme aims to test engineering technical and analytical skills, as well as professional soft skills including oral and written communication, team working, long-life learning, problem-solving, project management, and planning and organisation.
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include time constrained assessments (TCAs), coursework, such as written assignments, reports, or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances, or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year.
Accreditation
s-level accredited learning is required to complete the educational base for full CEng status.", 'Placements
A sandwich option is available on this programme, providing you with the opportunity to spend a year in industry. You are encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently, however tutors may provide support and advice to those who require it during this process. While undertaking placements, you are responsible for your own travel, living, and accommodation costs.
I have been supported in developing my professional skills to be on track for becoming a Chartered Engineer, and I have made the most of what the course has to offer to help me build confidence in my own academic ability. The academic staff are supportive and I know they want to help me achieve to the best of my ability.
Tim Gorringe
MEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Academic Expertise and Industry Links
Our academic team brings together a rich array of research experience, including staff with specialisms in diagnostics and prognostics, renewables, modelling of dynamic systems, nanomaterials, and applications of lasers. They secure grants for major UK and European research funders and deliver research, development, and consultancy for industrial partners, as well as being part of international research collaborations.
Students have the opportunity to engage in this research through research-led teaching and project work. The University of Lincolns School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching. Our innovative industrial collaborations have led to a rich programme of work experience opportunities, including at Siemens Energy in Lincoln.
What Can I Do With an Electrical Engineering Degree?
The School of Engineering aims to prepare its graduates for a variety of career paths in areas such as energy, transportation, biomedical engineering, and microelectronics. This can include working with sensor networks, automotive electronics, in the microprocessor industry, and in the aerospace and satellite sectors.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Maths.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit in Engineering accepted.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
A combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTEC, EPQ, etc.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry.  We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
T Level in Engineering: Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BEng (Hons) General Engineering
BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
BEng (Hons) Mechatronics
BEng (Hons) Biomedical Engineering
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
MEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
