Mechanical Engineering
 | BEng (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
H301
Academic Years
The BEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering degree at Lincoln aims to produce industry-ready graduates with product design and innovative sense who are highly-skilled, creative engineers able to adapt to new challenges and deliver sustainable solutions for modern society. 
The curriculum aims to support students in bridging the gap between the University and professional work by developing skills that are required by industry. The programme offers condensed yet impactful modules that are designed to arm our students with knowledge, skills, and tools to maximise their opportunities to secure a great career.
s School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching. Our innovative industrial collaborations have led to a range of workplace experience opportunities.", 'Strong links exist between our Mechanical and Electrical programmes, enabling our students to develop the strong cross-disciplinary focus necessary for the modern engineer, and an understanding of industry perspectives.
Why Choose Lincoln
Accredited by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE)
Opportunities to spend an additional year in industry
Strong industry links offer opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruitment
Specialist purpose-built facilities and equipment
A range of optional modules to choose from
How You Study
 requirements and our graduates' skills to improve employability and help facilitate their transition from higher education to work.", 'The first year of the degree is designed to provide a foundation in engineering theory and practice. Students are supported in their development of important technical skills, such as computer-aided design. The second and third years offer a range of specialist modules. At each stage of the course, there are opportunities to practise and develop engineering skills on real-life problems through project work.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment on the programme is designed to measure and assess engineering technical and analytical skills as well as professional soft skills including oral and written communication, team working, long-life learning, problem-solving, project management, and planning and organisation.
In addition to traditional exams, coursework assignments are used in a number of modules where students are required to work on their own or in small groups. They are designed to enable students to develop and show their understanding of the module content. Oral presentations are often included as part of coursework to provide opportunities for developing essential communication skills. The programme also includes time constrained assessments (TCAs).
Students are expected to complete an individual project in their final year of the degree course, providing an excellent opportunity to pull together every aspect of their development during the course.
Accreditation
s level accredited learning is required to complete the educational base for full CEng status.", 'Placements
A sandwich option is available on this programme, providing you with the opportunity to spend a year in industry. You are encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently, however tutors may provide support and advice to those who require it during this process. While undertaking placements, you are responsible for your own travel, living, and accommodation costs.
I thought it was brilliant that the degree modules focused not only on academic rigor, but the way they were delivered to develop of soft skills through things like group work on real industrial problems. This meant that when looking at graduate placements and schemes, I could confidently demonstrate key competencies that were required. 
Imogen Stevenson
Innovation Manager, Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult
Academic Expertise and Industry Links
Our academic team brings together a rich array of research experience, including staff with specialisms in diagnostics and prognostics, renewables, modelling of dynamic systems, nanomaterials, and applications of lasers. They secure grants for major UK and European research funders and deliver research, development, and consultancy for industrial partners, as well as being part of international research collaborations. Students have the opportunity to engage in this research through research-led teaching and project work.  Founded in collaboration with Siemens, the University of Lincolns School of Engineering has a core philosophy of research-led teaching. Our innovative industrial collaborations have led to a rich programme of work experience opportunities, including at Siemens Energy in Lincoln.
What Can I Do with a Mechanical Engineering Degree?
Professional engineers are in demand in the UK and overseas. Graduates may pursue a variety of career paths in areas such as control systems, power and energy, and mechanical and materials engineering. The Universitys strong industry links give Lincoln graduates enhanced opportunities for placements, mentoring, and recruitment, including at Siemens Energy in Lincoln. Other graduate destinations include Rolls-Royce, Qinetiq, JCB, and Jaguar Landrover.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points in Maths.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma in Engineering: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
T Level in Engineering: Merit
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
BEng (Hons) General Engineering
BEng (Hons) Mechatronics
BEng (Hons) Biomedical Engineering
BSc (Hons) Engineering Management
MEng (Hons) Electrical and Electronic Engineering
MEng (Hons) Mechanical Engineering
