Energy Materials and Battery Science
 | MSc | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
1 year
Part-time
2 years
Start Date
September 2024
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Academic Year
The MSc in Energy Materials and Battery Science is designed to develop an in-depth understanding of recent developments in emerging energy materials and their applications, particularly with respect to the battery technology sector which is seeing major government and industrial investment. The programme provides practical training in an array of energy materials characterisation techniques, and aims to develop knowledge of the fundamental principles of the chemistry that underpins commercially important energy materials, such as lithium ion batteries and photovoltaics.
Students have access to fully equipped modern research laboratories and instrumentation in a multidisciplinary research-focused environment. Students have the opportunity to gain an array of interdisciplinary fundamental knowledge and practical skills, developed through specialist lectures, workshops, seminars, and hands-on laboratory and analytical experience.
The programme is designed to help develop experienced, independent scientists in tune with the needs of research and industry in the energy materials sector (e.g. battery development, nanoscience), and more broadly within the analytical and electrochemical sectors.
Why Choose Lincoln
Explore developments in emerging energy materials and their applications
A focus on the battery technology sector
Specialist research laboratories and instrumentation in a research-focused environment
Integrated lectures, hands-on instrument training, and workshops
Complete a research project in a specialist area
A focus on professional and personal development
How You Study
The course will be delivered through modules that fall into three categories:
Advanced Theoretical Platforms and Topics: modules in this area aim to establish knowledge and understanding of the basis of modern and materials chemistry, and equip students with the skills and experience needed for successful delivery and completion of research investigation projects.
short course' format.", 'Specialist Topics: these modules provide the context of application for energy materials (e.g. photovoltaics, batteries, bioelectrochemistry) and enable students to develop an awareness of recording/reporting and regulatory requirements that apply in particular sectors. These aspects can be developed through experience of application in context through a research project.
The final stage of the programme enables students to further develop their knowledge and skills, and to gain the experience required for informed development of functional low dimensional materials for applications ranging from solar cells, to drug delivery and therapy. Students can develop their understanding of advanced characterisation techniques. Key skills required for experimental work will be underpinned by integrated lectures, hands-on instrument training, and workshops that focus on the development of skills for experimental design and interpretation of experimental data.
The specialist modules in energy material and battery science are presented as a series of short courses. Emphasis is placed on developing problem-solving skills, including critical evaluation of data, selecting and, where appropriate, adapting characterisation methods, and feeding the results of studies into the growth/synthesis of functional materials with required properties. The practical studies, methods, and techniques can be tailored towards the chosen area of specialism. 
 chosen areas of specialism. Students are expected to undertake an independent learning programme based on reflective practice to consolidate and enhance their personal and professional development. A broad range of activities can be included in this portfolio including more advanced or specialist training.", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment methods on the programme include laboratory and professional reports, problem-solving exercises, presentations (oral, poster, individual, and group), project work, literature reviews, and personal development portfolios. 
 abilities to contextualise laboratory studies, interpret and validate experimental results, and draw conclusions from experimental data. Formal reports will be used to form the basis for summative assessments in the advanced methods module.", 'Research skills will be assessed through individual research projects. These include project planning, execution of the planned work that is assessed continuously by the project supervisor, a written report, and an individual presentation.
How to Apply
Postgraduate Application Support
ll need to complete on our How to Apply page. Here, you'll also be able to find out more about the entry requirements we accept and how to contact us for dedicated support during the process.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
Second class honours degree or above in a science-related field.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/.
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-session English and Academic Study Skills courses. These specialist courses are designed to help students meet the English language requirements for their intended programme of study.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
Course Fees
You will need to have funding in place for your studies before you arrive at the University. Our fees vary depending on the course, mode of study, and whether you are a UK or international student. You can view the breakdown of fees for this programme below.
The University offers a range of merit-based, subject-specific, and country-focused scholarships for UK and international students. To help support students from outside of the UK, we offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Funding Your Study
Postgraduate Funding Options
s Loans to scholarship opportunities. You can also find out more about how to pay your fees and access support from our helpful advisors.", 'Career Development
This programme is designed to help develop experienced, independent scientists, in tune with the needs of research and industry in the energy materials sector, and, more broadly, within the analytical and electrochemical sectors. The programme aims to build a core of operational experience in modern analytical instrumentation and materials chemistry within the context of modern energy materials development such as batteries and photovoltaics.
Academic Contact
For more information about this course, please contact the Programme Leader.
Dr Tasnim Munshitmunshi@lincoln.ac.uk
Postgraduate Events
To get a real feel for what it is like to study at the University of Lincoln, we hold a number of dedicated postgraduate events and activities throughout the year for you to take part in.
