Film and Television Studies
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
PW36
Academic Years
Film and television inform, entertain, reflect, and also shape society, and this course examines the power behind these key mediums. This course at Lincoln is a theoretically oriented critical studies degree, enhanced by opportunities for creative and professional development. It gives students the opportunity to undertake practical work, enabling them to deepen their understanding of the critical issues and key concepts of the discipline.
s film and TV, representations of difference, Hollywood, and marginal cinemas. Meanwhile, practical modules are delivered by active media professionals using industry-standard facilities and equipment.", 'Film and television inform, entertain, reflect, and also shape society, and this course examines the power behind these key mediums. This course at Lincoln is a theoretically oriented critical studies degree, enhanced by opportunities for creative and professional development. It gives students the opportunity to undertake practical work, enabling them to deepen their understanding of the critical issues and key concepts of the discipline.
s film and TV, representations of difference, Hollywood, and marginal cinemas. Meanwhile, practical modules are delivered by active media professionals using industry-standard facilities and equipment.", 'Why Choose Lincoln
Access to industry-standard facilities and equipment 
Learn from staff who are media practitioners with links to industry
Opportunity to take part in an exchange programme in Europe or the USA 
Hear from guest speakers from across the film and media industries 
A vibrant research community 
How You Study
You will have the opportunity to learn and develop through lectures, workshops, seminars, group projects, screenings, research, and an independent study.
In the first year, this degree provides an overview of the theory, history and analysis of film and television. It offers a theoretically informed introduction to film and TV practice. An increasing number of optional modules in the second year enables students to forge their own path according to their research and creative interests. In their third and final year, students are expected to complete an independent study and will continue to curate their own path by selection between optional critical studies and critical practice modules.
During the second year, there are opportunities to take part in exchange programmes with one of our partner universities in Europe or the USA.  Students will be responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking study abroad.
In the first year, this degree provides an overview of the theory, history, and analysis of film and television. It offers a theoretically informed introduction to film and TV practice. An increasing number of optional modules in the second year enables students to forge their own path according to their research and creative interests. In their third and final year, students are expected to complete an independent study and will continue to curate their own path by selection between optional critical studies and critical practice modules.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Varied modes of assessment are used on this programme, including critical essays, presentations, and viewing logs. Practical work is assessed by experienced media industry professionals. There are no formal examinations on the course.
Specialist Facilities
Expert Staff and Visiting Speakers
Many academic staff in the Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism are current media practitioners who are engaged with professional bodies, such as the Royal Television Society; the British Society of Cinematographers; and the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies; ensuring that course content is informed by the latest industry developments. Some conduct research alongside teaching and the School is home to a community of researchersexploring questions about culture, consumption, creativity, and communication, consistently pushing the boundaries of media research. Students also have the opportunity to hear from visiting guest speakers from many parts of the Film and TV industries.
Study Abroad
The Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism runs exchange programmes with partner institutions in the USA, Canada, and Europe. These give students the opportunity to experience and learn about other cultures. Those who choose to do this are responsible for covering their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
What Can I Do with a Film and Television Studies Degree?
Our graduates may go on to employment in exhibition and curation, media journalism, marketing and PR, media management, and a variety of production-related roles in film, TV, and the creative industries. They may also go into teaching or academic careers via postgraduate study.
re famous!", '
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Project costs can vary depending on the nature of the practical work chosen by the student. Students are asked to consider costs when proposing a project. 
Study Abroad Outside of Europe
Exchange students applying to study outside of Europe do not pay tuition fees at their host university. Participants will usually be responsible for all other costs themselves, including travel, accommodation, visas, insurance, vaccinations, and administrative fees at the host institution.
Students going on exchange keep their entitlement to UK sources of funding such as student loans and should apply to their awarding body in the normal way, indicating that they will be studying abroad.
If your time away is a mandatory part of your degree programme, you may be entitled to extra funding. You should ask your funding body about this.
You may also be able to apply to your LEA or the SAAS for further funding to assist with travel expenses - contact them to enquire.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Film Production
BA (Hons) Media Production
BA (Hons) Media Studies
