Interior Architecture and Design
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years with Foundation Year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
W250
Academic Years
Interior architects shape the spaces in which we live our lives, combining aesthetics with philosophy and function.
The Interior Architecture and Design degree at Lincoln takes a multi-disciplinary approach. It positions the subject between the academically rigorous profession of architecture and the fast-paced world of contemporary visual culture and design.
The course provides students with the opportunity to develop their practical design knowledge within specialist studios. It is taught by staff who are active professionals and researchers such as Tonia Warsap, Rosie Elvin, and Begm Ulusoy.
Students can explore the disciplines within the design industry and building technology methods, while developing their own creative, individual style. Their studio learning is enhanced by a programme of lectures and seminars which aim to provide a thorough education in the social and historical context of architecture.
During the course, there are opportunities for students to gain practical work experience for real clients and building developments, including placements with a wide range of interior design and architectural practices.
You can find out more about the work of our staff and students by following our Interior Architecture and Design Twitter account https://twitter.com/iadlincolnuni or by following us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/iadlincolnuni/.
This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry onto the full degree programme. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked 3rd in the UK for graduate prospects*
Enter student design competitions
Access specialist facilities to hone creative practice
Opportunities to work on live projects with real clients
Take part in optional study trips 
Opportunity to study abroad in an exchange programme 
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 52 ranking institutions).
How You Study
Three-dimensional thinking is the focus of the first year and it is explored through a variety of media. Students are challenged to consider how the design process works and begin to use the skills of planning and modelling. The history and theory of architecture and design are also examined, providing students with the chance to contextualise their practice with a solid theoretical understanding of the subject.
In their second year, students are introduced to the concept of social relationships and the responsibilities and challenges that face interior architects. In the third year, students are required to complete an individual comprehensive design project in an area of personal interest, demonstrating the skills they have acquired as a designer. Professional practice is emphasised at this stage, supporting students to develop the skills necessary for careers in the industry.
Modules are presented in two streams: the design process and the research process. The design process incorporates conceptual, technical, and professional knowledge areas, as well as conception development, resolution, and communication. The research process stream focuses on design theory and contextual material, enabling students to develop research skills.
Working in a studio-based environment, students can develop and evolve their skills through stimulating briefs and live projects exploring space, light and structure. In parallel to the studio sessions students engage in computer-based tutorials where they build their skills based knowledge. Theoretical principles are taught in a lecture/seminar environment, interior architects and designers are communicators and it is important that they are able to research, formulate opinions, and develop topical insight. 
Students on this programme learn from academic staff who are often engaged in world-leading or internationally excellent research or professional practice. Contact time can be in studio sessions, seminars or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year. Tutorial sessions and project supervision can take the form of one-to-one engagement or small group sessions. Some courses offer the opportunity to take part in external visits and fieldwork.
It is still the case that students read for a degree and this means that in addition to scheduled contact hours, students are required to engage in independent study. This allows you to read around a subject and to prepare for lectures and seminars through wider reading, or to complete follow up tasks such as assignments or revision. As a general guide, the amount of independent study required by students at the University of Lincoln is that for every hour in class you are expected to spend at least two to three hours in independent study.
Student may also have the opportunity to broaden their horizons with a year working in industry. This is an excellent opportunity to gain industry experience and build networks ready for pursing a graduate role after university.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Formative assessment takes place in the studio with continual feedback during studio sessions.  Summative assessment includes practical examinations, and verbal and visual presentations which take place at the end of each module.
Learn more from our Academics
Discover more about Interior Architecture and Design at Lincoln from our Undergraduate course to our Postgraduate course. 
Specialist Facilities
Through instilling in our design students a thoughtful and critical approach to the way they think about design and apply their creative skills, we aim to prepare them to be leaders in the creative industries.
The University of Lincoln has a comprehensive range of facilities designed to provide a supportive environment for creative practitioners. Students have regular access to workshops, labs, and industry-standard equipment, as well as highly knowledgeable technicians. This environment can help students to develop their knowledge and skills, and complements our purpose-built design studios where students have their own space, giving them the opportunity to work independently and with their peers.
Students are currently provided with free access to Adobe Creative Cloud and Autodesk software, as well as Lynda.com for the duration of their studies.
Explore Our Facilities
s about taking that as inspiration and creating your own contribution to the world of interior architecture.", 'Ben Young
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design
Studio Culture
A practical studio culture is in place at the University of Lincoln and as well as striving to provide a stimulating and creative environment, this way of working aims to prepare students for their future career in architecture and design. It also allows students the opportunity to take responsibility for how they develop a space, explore their own visual style, and to engage with other students and staff. Each year group is designated an area, and each student has a space in this area. The School encourages students to engage with the studio environment and work with peers.
Live Projects and Competitions
Students have the opportunity to work on live projects and competitions. For example, students worked with YMCA Lincolnshire and the design fee was used for our end of year show. One of our students also won the Interior Educator Award in the Social Justice category for their project One Size Fits All.
What Can I Do with an Interior Architecture and Design Degree?
Graduates have gone on to careers in various areas of the discipline, working in a wide range of interior, architectural, or design practices nationally and internationally. Some choose to continue their studies with a postgraduate degree.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Applicant Portfolios
Once you have submitted your application to UCAS, you will be invited to submit a digital portfolioto evidence your practical work. We willcontact you by email with information about where, when, and how to submit a portfolio, as well as provide you with handy tips on what to include.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Standard workshop induction costs are covered by the University, as are some initial printing and material costs. However, depending on the media/materials chosen by the student, there may be additional costs for incurred for printing and materials.
Mandatory field trip costs are covered by the University, but optional study visits are at each students own expense. Previous optional trips have included Yorkshire Sculpture Park, The Hepworth Wakefield, and Hull - UK city of culture 2017.
Those who choose to do a study abroad exchange programme or year long placement do not pay tuition fees for that year but are responsible for covering any travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Architecture
BA (Hons) Graphic Design
BA (Hons) Illustration
BA (Hons) Product Design
