International Relations
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
L250
Academic Year
Professionals working in international relations have an in-depth understanding of the impact of political, economic, and cultural forces and seek to balance these dynamics in order to maintain peace and trade in a complex and globalised world, where pockets of tension can rapidly escalate beyond borders.
International Relations at Lincoln aims to provide a structured way of understanding and influencing the cross-border factors shaping our societies: security, conflict, inequality, development, intercultural understanding, and human rights.
Teaching on the course is driven by the latest developments in the discipline and students are taught by academics who are currently engaged in research across a range of specialisms including terrorism, gender and sexuality, migration, security, international political economy, war crimes and genocide, the politics of global health, and the European Union.
A range of modules allows students to build their professional skills and enhance employability. An example of the innovative and high-quality curriculum offered is found in the Model United Nations module where students can develop negotiating skills and practice diplomacy in a simulation of the UN General Assembly.
This interdisciplinary programme draws upon politics, economics, history, sociology, international law, geography, and cultural studies to explore issues such as conflict, global inequalities, sovereignty, and human rights.
Why Choose Lincoln
Options to study abroad for a year
Undertake voluntary placements in local councils
Conduct research alongside our expert academic team
Choose from optional modules to suite your preferences
How You Study
 own interests. Students can take this further in the third year, where they are required to undertake an independent study in a research area of their choice.", 'This programme uses a variety of teaching and learning methods including lectures and seminars, group projects, and workshops. In an average week students are expected to attend a lecture in each of their modules, with a follow-up seminar. Seminars are usually more informal, with the aim of enabling students to discuss the topic with their tutor in a smaller group. They sometimes provide students with the opportunity to work together in groups to prepare presentations or reports.
In addition to lectures and seminars, staff use a range of media to deliver teaching materials including blogs, video, and social media platforms. Some modules include regular screenings of documentaries and movies designed to examine and prompt discussion on the presentation of international politics in the media and popular culture. A range of external speakers including those involved in politics at local and national level also aim to provide an insight into the real world of politics.
Simulation- and problem-based learning is a distinctive feature of the programme, for example students gain experience preparing foreign policy briefings and participate in a simulation of the United Nations General Assembly.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Students are assessed in the form of essays, reports, presentations and reviews, and examinations. Assessment varies from module to module depending on the subject of study.
Placements
ll havethe opportunity to apply for the voluntary, competitive work placements scheme which is run with a local council.These opportunitiescan offer valuable experience of a professional policy environment. Placements are undertaken at the students own expense and you'll be responsible for the costs associated with general living, accommodation, and travel.", 'Study Abroad Year
t need to pay a tuition fee to either the University of Lincoln or the host university, but will be responsible for covering travel, accommodation, and living costs and where applicable, visa costs.", 'The Great Central Warehouse Library
At the heart of student life is our library which will provide you with access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
Learning Lounges
You can take advantage of our range of modern study areas located across campus, which include learning lounges which give you the opportunity to study alone or with your friends and course mates.
Computer Suites
You offer a range of computer suites in buildings across our Brayford Pool Campus. 
What Can I Do with an International Relations Degree?
Graduates have gone on to positions in a diverse range of areas, including roles in intergovernmental organisations, non-government organisations (NGOs) and banking and accounting services.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit, or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
The cost of optional study trips fluctuates according to demand, currency movements and the cost of travel, accommodation and visa expenses.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) International Business Management
BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics
BA (Hons) International Tourism Management
BA (Hons) Politics
