Logistics Management (open)
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Part-time
18 to 24 months
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
Academic Years
 capacity to successfully manage people, operations and systems within a logistics environment. ", 'This work-based distance learning programme is designed to provide those working within an appropriate environment, and commonly already holding professional qualifications, the management skills to effectively and efficiently manage their work areas. The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skills students may have already developed during the course of their employment.
The course aims develop of a broad range of logistics management knowledge and skills such as leading people, budgeting, managing the organisation and managing systems. The programme offers elective modules to allow students to choose their own learning journey. Students can make choices concerning their role within the organisation and the particular logistics function they operate in. 
The Lincoln International Business School subscribes to the Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME), which establishes a set of principles to guide our educational endeavour to address global challenges and create a better future for society. These principles are embedded in our programmes through the notion of The Lincoln Responsible Management Graduate:
"Through educational experiences at Lincoln our students develop as people who understand their responsibilities as global citizens, as entrepreneurs, as managers of people, money and resources, as stewards of the economy and the environment and as self-reflective leaders setting future agendas for organisations."
The programme aims to provide: - A learning programme focused on learning that is highly relevant to the workplace
- Assessment methods focusing on theory, practice, application and reflection;
- The full degree will offer duel accreditation from the CMI and include a CMI Diploma at Level 5, and Chartered Manager status;
- The full programme is also accredited and linked to the professional bodies the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) and the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS), which allows the BSc to be mapped to professional standards and entry to membership routes.
 capacity to successfully manage people, operations, and systems within a logistics environment. ", 'This work-based distance learning programme is designed to provide those working within an appropriate environment, and commonly already holding professional qualifications, the management skills to effectively and efficiently manage their work areas. The degree draws upon specialised knowledge and skills students may have already developed during the course of their employment.
The course aims develop of a broad range of logistics management knowledge and skills such as leading people, budgeting, managing the organisation, and managing systems. The programme offers elective modules to allow students to choose their own learning journey. Students can make choices concerning their role within the organisation and the particular logistics function they operate in. 
Why Choose Lincoln
A work-based distance learning programme
Utilises a range of digital and technological learning tools
Supported throughout by a module tutor and a range of resources
How You Study
This flexible learning programme can be tailored to individual needs and circumstances, and provides an academically rigorous learning environment within which students have the opportunity to extend skills, expertise, knowledge, vision and personal/career development by:
- engaging in independent learning, reflective debate and practice, supported throughout by a module tutor and a range of resources
 workplaces, developing knowledge in addition to developing a range of skills and abilities", '- gaining an understanding of the dynamic nature of modern organisations and the environment within which they operate by applying module content to management situations within the workplace in increasingly integrated and systematic ways.
The programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating the development of knowledge, skills and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness. 
The programme provides a distance-learning framework to enable individuals to complete the programme within a two year period - the duration reflects personal circumstances, accredited experience, prior learning and work commitments.
This flexible learning programme can be tailored to individual needs and circumstances, and provides an academically rigorous learning environment within which students have the opportunity to extend skills, expertise, knowledge, vision, and personal/career development by:
The programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating the development of knowledge, skills, and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness. 
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
formative' assessments to provide a key element of the learning experience. Students will have the opportunity for formative assessment on all assessment elements. ", 'Where students submit written work it is submitted electronically via Blackboard. Feedback on assessments will be delivered electronically in line with the university of Lincoln regulations.
For each module there will be an assignment brief which will include details of the intended learning outcomes for the module, the assignment tasks to be undertaken, and the weighting of the assignment tasks. 
s will be used extensively where appropriate combined with alternative and innovate assessment methods. Portfolio assessments could include reports, case studies, descriptions, reviews, reflective learning accounts, presentations, projects, proposals and plans, with accompanying critical commentary. ", 'Portfolio assessments are designed to enable students to demonstrate how they have applied their knowledge and understanding, skills and behaviours in a real work environment and in a range of ways to achieve real work objectives.
Entry Requirements 2023-24
Entry Requirements
Each programme is designed to meet the needs of students in any business who want to upgrade their operations skills and progress their qualifications to degree level. To qualify for direct entry we normally look for a recent level 5 qualification (up to 5 years old) and on-going employment in a relevant field to the course subject area.
We may also accept candidates with a level 4 qualification or extensive work experience under certain conditions. If you are unsure of your suitability for the degree, please contact our Admissions team.
If you do not meet the entry requirements for this course, the FdSc Operations Management is designed as a pathway to help meet the level 6 requirements and give you the foundation in operational management necessary for any of the work-based distance learning degree courses we offer. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/opsmgtuf/.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
The University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Applications
Work-Based Distance Learning students need to be in employment and have some management responsibilities, this can be management of people or resources. You will need to evidence that you can practically apply level 5 knowledge, this can be achieved by providing evidence of qualifications undertaken or professional body membership.
What Can I Do with aLogistics Management Degree?
BSc (Hons) Logistics Management is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability. Students have the opportunity to extend their skills, knowledge, and vision and the course provides them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Get in Touch
If you would like to find out more about this course, then our friendly Work Based Distance Learning Team are here to help. You can reach them by email at askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk.
