Business and Management
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 or 4 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
NN12
Academic Years
At the heart of every successful business are people with the expertise to use physical and human resources effectively, leading teams to embrace the challenges they face and find the best way forward.
Our BA (Hons) Business and Management is designed for students who want to work in the fast-paced global world of business, whether it is in a private, public, or a third sector organisation.
The course aims to help you develop the capacity to address the challenges of business practice by managing complexity, being confident in conditions of uncertainty, and positively responding to unintended consequences. You are encouraged to think and act as managers, developing your critical-thinking skills, and building a broad knowledge of core business subject areas.
You will have the opportunity to complete a one-year work placement or international year aborad, which will be reflected in the award title - BA (Hons) Business and Management (with Professional Practice), or BA (Hons) Business and Management (International Study Year). Those who choose not complete a placement or year abroad will receive a BA (Hons) Business and Management award, or equivalent exit award.
Why Choose Lincoln
Hands-on experience during a professional practice year
Accredited by the Chartered Management Institute
How You Study
From the outset of the course, students are expected to tackle subjects which underpin business practice, such as finance, organisational behaviour, and economics. This moves on to more complex aspects of management in the second year including sustainability, leadership, innovation, operations, human resource management, and budgeting.
In the final year, you will study core modules in strategic management, leadership, digital marketing, and philosophy, and can choose to specialise in ethics, crisis management, financial management, global marketing strategy, or independent research
Core modules on this programme have integrated opportunities for you to innovate and develop your  leadership skills. There are opportunities for you to undertake problem-based learning, develop reflective practice, and design, develop, and present portfolios.
live' case material and offer students industry contacts and careers advice. ", 'In seminars, which typically involve numbers of fewer than 20, you are able to articulate your own thoughts and clarify ideas through discussion with others. 
A variety of learning methods will be used, including in-class group exercises, discussions, presentations, evaluation of sample material, and case study analysis. Students are expected to prepare prescribed material for seminars as well as generally keep abreast of current developments in their discipline.
In the final year, you will study core modules in strategic management, leadership, digital marketing, and philosophy, and can choose to specialise in crisis management, financial management, global marketing strategy, or independent research
s Journey", '
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The degree uses a range of assessment types which can assess individual performance and group performance to reflect the variety of learning styles in students. Assessments can include coursework such as assignments, project, essay, report, portfolio, and reflective log; practical work including presentation, exhibition, role play, and oral assessment. Exams can include in-class tests or written exam.
s work to support learning throughout the degree. Quality feedback is integral to the degrees teaching and learning strategy. Where possible feedback is available electronically. Students have access to one-to-one meetings to receive personalised feedback about their performance.", 'How you are assessed
s work to support learning throughout the degree. Quality feedback is integral to the degrees teaching and learning strategy. Where possible feedback is available electronically. Students have access to one-to-one meetings to receive personalised feedback about their performance.", 'Accreditation
The course is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI). Students completing the degree can achieve a Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership from the CMI. As Affiliate Members of the CMI, you have access to CMIs business mentoring scheme, career development centre, and professional learning resources to help develop professional expertise and to build relationships with industry throughout your degree.
Day in the Life of a Business Management Student
Professional PracticeYear
t have topay tuition fees forthisyear, but you will needto cover your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Studentswho complete the one-year work placement willbe awarded aBA (Hons) Business and Management (with Professional Practice). Those who choose not to complete a placement or year abroad will receive a BA (Hons) Business and Management, or equivalent exit award.
International Study Year
t have to paytuition fees for that year but will be required to cover your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Professional Skills
The degree offers online training to develop personal and professional skills in areas such as management development, employability mathematics, and finance. Bite-sized online training is also available to enhance proficiency with frequently used business software. Training is available for packages such as Word, Outlook, Excel.
The University of Lincoln is proud of its approach to nurturing entrepreneurship in its students. Lectures and visiting practitioners provide insight into current practice and global issues, while real-world projects help challenge students to develop problem solving skills.
Academics and students on the degree also work closely with the Business Society to provide access to industry through guest speakers and business visits. This is very much the social arm of the degree.
What Can I Do with aBusiness and Management Degree?
Graduates from our BA (Hons) Business and Management may go on to work in project management, logistics management, consultancy, retail, human resources, marketing, finance, manufacturing, education, information technology, and telecommunications, as well as public sector management.
My course offered up-to-date industry knowledge that allowed me to thrive during my professional placement year with the bank that has since offered me a graduate role.
Stephanie Nock
BA (Hons) Business and Management
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit .
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s: Minimum of three at grade 4  or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac....andacademicstudyskills/
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
As part of this course, students can choose to undertake a year of work placement following the second year. They are expected to source their own paid placement, but can be supported through the process. No tuition fees will be due for this year, but students will be expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Business
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing
BA (Hons) Business Economics
BA (Hons) Business with Entrepreneurship
BA (Hons) International Business Management
BA (Hons) Sports Business Management
BA (Hons) Business and Finance
