Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
GF13
Academic Years
Taking a joint honours in Mathematics and Physics at Lincoln allows students to explore the interplay between these two important disciplines, and the ways in which they co-exist and complement each other.
The degree aims to provide a broad education in mathematics. This includes pure and applied mathematics. This is alongside fundamental and applied physics, enabling students to develop the knowledge and problem-solving skills vital to modern science and technology.
This course is designed to provide a thorough foundation in analytical and numerical methods, practical scientific skills, and research techniques. It gives students the opportunity to develop a range of transferable skills, such as communication and problem solving.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction*
IMA and IOP accreditation
 Informed by cutting-edge research 
Guest speakers from around the world
Additional problem-solving tutorials
Placement Year available
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 69 ranking institutions).
How You Study
In the first year students can study modules including Algebra; Calculus; and Electricity, Magnetism, Thermal and Quantum Physics. Second year students progress onto modules which include Condensed Matter Physics, Scientific Computing, and Differential Equations, alongside the opportunity to complete an group project. In the third year students can study Numerical Methods and Statistical Mechanics and have the opportunity to select from a range of optional modules.
The course is taught through lectures, problem-solving classes, computer-based classes, and seminars. In addition to lectures and problem-solving classes, first year students in the School of Mathematics and Physics can benefit from weekly one hour tutorial sessions in small groups.
In the first year students can study modules including Algebra; Calculus; and Electricity, Magnetism, Thermal and Quantum Physics. Second year students progress onto modules which include Condensed Matter Physics, Scientific Computing, and Differential Equations, alongside the opportunity to complete a group project. In the third year students can study Numerical Methods and Statistical Mechanics and have the opportunity to select from a range of optional modules.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The course is assessed through a variety of means, including tests, course work, examinations, written reports and oral presentations.
Accreditation
Our BSc programme currently meets the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation. This is awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA), when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency for taught Masters degrees. The MMath programme is accredited by the IMA.
This programme is accredited by the Institute of Physics (IOP). Holders of accredited degrees are eligible for IOP membership and can follow a route to professional registration as a RSci, CPhys, and/or CSci.
Research-informed Teaching
Teaching on this course is conducted by academic members of staff who are active researchers in their fields. This research informs teaching at all levels of the programme. Staff conduct cutting-edge research in fundamental and applied mathematics and physics, ranging from pure mathematics to applied nano-science at the interface between biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. The School of Mathematics and Physics collaborates with top research institutions in Germany, Japan, Norway, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the USA.
Visiting Speakers
The School of Mathematics and Physics regularly welcomes guest speakers from around the world. Recent visitors to the University of Lincoln have included former vice president of the Royal Astronomical Society Professor Don Kurtz, mathematician and author Professor Marcus du Sautoy OBE, and operations research specialist Ruth Kaufman OBE.
There is a wealth of materials provided by lecturers for independent study, they also show you where to find information beyond the scope of the module if you are interested and want to learn more.
Margaret-Ann Withington
MMath Mathematics and Physics
Placements
Students on this course are encouraged to obtain and undertake work placements independently in the UK or overseas during their studies, providing hands-on experience in industry. These can range from a few weeks to a full year if students choose the sandwich year option. Placements may be conducted with external research institutions (which can be overseas). The option is subject to availability and selection criteria set by the industry or external institution. When undertaking optional placements, students will be required to cover their transport, accommodation, and general living costs.
What Can I Do with a Mathematics and Theoretical Physics Degree?
Mathematics and Physics graduates may go on to careers in science and technology, engineering, computing, medicine, education, consultancy, business and finance, and within government bodies. Some may choose to undertake further study at postgraduate level. Our courses aim to provide a thorough grounding in analytical and numerical methods, practical scientific skills, and research methods. Additionally, transferable skills such as communications, problem-solving, and decision-making, which students are expected to develop throughout their studies, are valuable in many areas of employment.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Maths.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 30 points overall, with Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths.
BTEC qualifications may be considered. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC and T Level qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths.
s: Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Mathematics
BSc (Hons) Mathematics and Computer Science
BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Philosophy
MMath Mathematics
MMath Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
MSci Mathematics and Computer Science
