Professional Music Studies
 | BMus (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Military Partner(s)
Academic Year
Delivered in Portsmouth, this programme allows musicians in the Royal Marines Band Service to pursue a professionally relevant degree programme that incorporates their professional work and training. Delivered by the Royal Marines School of Music, the programme covers areas of performance, composition, history, and theory.
 ability to reflect critically on their practical work is emphasised throughout.", 'The degree is structured around strands of study that become progressively more in advanced in both scholarly and practical elements as the degree progresses.
How You Study
 learning.", 'Teaching methods include individual instrumental lessons, individual instrumental practice, lectures and presentations by staff, class discussions,  demonstrations, discussion of recorded extracts, presentations, individual research, tutor support, and work-based learning.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment of students matches the professional, practical, and work-based characteristics of the programme, whilst ensuring students synthesise practical and scholarly knowledge at an appropriate level. This degree is built around the twin strands of  practical music making and scholarly musical understanding, and, crucially, how knowledge and understanding of both is brought together.
Assessment methods include recital examinations; ensemble performances; timed practical examinations; viva voce examinations, timed written examinations; essays, critical programme notes, and reports; assignments in harmony, composition, and arranging; an assessment of task book; and portfolios of practical and contextual work.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
All student recruitment is managed by Royal Marines School of Music via the University Liaison Officer. The programme is open to all Musicians in the Royal Marines Band Service. To be considered for the BMus programme, students should have completed their M3 Elements and Aural training. Students are able to commence the programme later in their careers, and previous vocational training will count towards their studies. Students will also need to have agreement from the Director of Music Training and the course leaders to enrol on the degree.
Enrolment and Fees
Students must have written consent from their respective Director of Music to be able to enrol on the programme. Study on the BMus is fully funded through the Royal Navy.
