Professional Practice
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Part-time
2 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Academic Year
top-up' option for non-graduate registered healthcare professionals. ", 'The programme aims to provide a degree-level qualification from a structured and appropriate post-registration education portfolio consisting of practice focused and research modules. These are aligned with the NHS career framework, which supports the philosophy of lifelong learning and links to the NHS agenda for change initiative. A key focus of this programme will be to support learning in practice, while also developing knowledge and understanding of strategic service transformation and evidence-based practice. 
The course has been designed to meet the needs of experienced practitioners from a range of healthcare backgrounds, and is suitable for registered and practicing professionals such as nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and radiographers. It will provide an opportunity to broaden knowledge and understanding of theoretical and policy issues, including research methods, and develop skills in order to contribute to the changing health and social care system. 
For further information please contact Programme Leader, Chris Breen: chbreen@lincoln.ac.uk
How You Study
The programme consists of two core modules and further optional modules can be chosen from the existing continuous professional development portfolio. Most modules are delivered in a 5-10-week block, where students will be required to either study remotely or attend University on one day per week. This day will be fixed in advance for each module block, but the actual day of the week will vary from module to module.
s, clinical placements, research and one-to-one learning.", 'University-level study involves a significant proportion of independent study, exploring the material covered in lectures and seminars. As a general guide, for every hour in class students are expected to spend two - three hours in independent study.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to you promptly - usually within 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment
The way you will be assessed on this course may vary for each module. It could include coursework, such as a dissertation or essay, written and practical exams, portfolio development, group work or presentations to name some examples.
Placements
Some courses require you to undertake clinical hours in practice. These may take the form of supervised practice in your place of work, insight days, or a longer, formal placement. Such placements are organised by the students themselves or with their employer. You will be expected to cover the cost of transport, accommodation, and general living expenses, unless you are able to claim from your own employer. Tutors can provide support and advice on finding placements, should you require it.
Specialist Facilities
s Sarah Swift Building provides access to a range of clinical suites that simulate real hospital and home environments, and features the latest in-patient simulation technology. Students will also be able to gain practical experience with simulated patients that feature realistic anatomy and clinical functionality, as well as CPR mannequins to help develop clinical and decision-making skills during scenarios and clinical practice. The replicated ward environment is of an NHS standard and features realistic patient bays, as well as clinical equipment and consumables to provide a realistic workspace.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
s credit accumulation and transfer scheme.", 'An Accredited Prior Experiential Learning option (APEL) is available for experienced practitioners who do not hold the above qualifications.
To apply for this course please email cpd@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
For each course you may find that there are additional costs. These may be with regard to the specific clothing, materials or equipment required, depending on your course.
With regards to text books, the University provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and you will find that our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that you are required to read. However, you may prefer to purchase some of these for yourself and you will be responsible for this cost.
