Physics
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Part-time
Part-time study is available
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
F300
Academic Years
Physics is a fundamental science which underpins our understanding of the world around us, from distant galaxies to the smallest particles. The knowledge and problem-solving skills of physicists are vital to new discoveries and advances in science and technology.
This course offers the opportunity to study a combination of fundamental and applied physics alongside rigorous mathematics and computational training. Teaching is informed by research, with the chance for students to work on real-world research projects alongside our academic staff.
Throughout the course there are extensive opportunities for students to hone practical skills in preparation for a career in a variety of sectors. The programme includes a combination of compulsory and elective modules covering all components of core physics, as defined by the UK Institute of Physics (IOP).
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction*
Additional problem-solving tutorials
Accredited by the Institute of Physics (IOP)
Guest speakers from around the world
Informed by cutting-edge research
Placement Year available
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 47 ranking institutions).
How You Study
The BSc (Hons) Physics programme combines theory with practical laboratory work and substantial research training. Throughout the course there are extensive opportunities for students to hone practical skills in preparation for a career in a variety of sectors.
The programme includes a combination of compulsory and elective modules covering all components of core physics, as defined by the UK Institute of Physics (IOP).
In the first year students have the chance to benefit from an additional three hours per week of problem solving tutorials. In addition, the School of Mathematics and Physics runs a tutor system for first year students, providing one hour weekly tutor sessions in small groups.
The course is taught through lectures, problem-solving classes, computer-based classes, and seminars.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The course may be assessed through a variety of means, including coursework, examinations, written reports, and oral presentations.
Accreditation
This programme is accredited by the Institute of Physics (IOP). Holders of accredited degrees are eligible for IOP membership and can follow a route to professional registration as a RSci, CPhys, and/or CSci.
Research-informed Teaching
Teaching on this course is conducted by academic members of staff who are active researchers in their fields. This research informs teaching at all levels of the programme. Staff conduct cutting-edge research in fundamental and applied mathematics and physics, ranging from pure mathematics to applied nano-science at the interface between biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. The School of Mathematics and Physics collaborates with top research institutions in Germany, Japan, Norway, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the USA.
Visiting Speakers
The School of Mathematics and Physics regularly welcomes guest speakers from around the world. Recent visitors to the University of Lincoln have included former vice president of the Royal Astronomical Society Professor Don Kurtz, mathematician and author Professor Marcus du Sautoy OBE, and operations research specialist Ruth Kaufman OBE.
I have found all the course content fascinating and engaging, covering a broad range of topics in physics and mathematics. I thoroughly enjoyed the Electrodynamics and Condensed Matter modules, which were both challenging in their own right, but massively interesting.
Matthew Thompson
MPhys Physics
Placements
Students on this course are encouraged to obtain and undertake work placements independently in the UK or overseas during their studies, providing hands-on experience in industry. These can range from a few weeks to a full year if students choose the sandwich year option. Placements may be conducted with external research institutions (which can be overseas). The option is subject to availability and selection criteria set by the industry or external institution. When undertaking optional placements, students will be required to cover their transport, accommodation, and general living costs.
I thoroughly enjoyed my studies at the University, mainly due to the ever-patient staff and academics who were there every step of the way, no matter how small the problem.
Sorcha Hulme
BSc (Hons) Physics 
What Can I Do with a Physics Degree?
Physics graduates are well-placed for careers in research and development, process control, and regulatory roles in organisations around the world. Some may go on to roles in education or further study at postgraduate level. Additionally, transferable skills such as communications, problem-solving, and decision-making, which students are expected to develop throughout their studies, are valuable in many spheres of employment.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points in Maths and Physics.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths and Physics.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths and 15 credits in Physics.
BTEC qualifications may be considered. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Maths and 32 points Physics.
BTEC and T Level qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths and grade C in A Level Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths and Physics.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
BSc (Hons) Physics with Astrophysics
BSc (Hons) Physics with Philosophy
MMath Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
MPhys Physics with Astrophysics
MPhys Physics with Philosophy
