Psychology with Mental Health
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 Years
Part-time
6 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C840
Academic Years
Understanding mental health is key to working across a range of settings both within and outside of healthcare environments. Across this course, you can learn about diagnosing mental health disorders, examine factors influencing mental health and wellbeing across the lifespan, and understand vulnerability and resilience in the context of psychological and cognitive process. The course also explores approaches to treatment, looking at therapy and counselling skills and exploring the theory behind these
This degree aligns closely with the Psychology BSc (Hons) degree. The specialist elements of the programme are taught by a mix of experienced practitioners, researchers, and guest speakers from a variety of backgrounds such as working with those who have complex mental health needs. Areas of expertise within the teaching staff on the course, include psychobiological mechanism of mental health vulnerability, mindfulness in children, and models of wellbeing. There is also expertise in areas such as sleep, gambling, and eating disorders across the wider School of Psychology. These are offered as electives in the third year to enable further specialisation to complement the core mental health programme.
Understanding mental health is key to working across a range of settings both within and outside of healthcare environments. Across this course, you can learn about diagnosing mental health disorders, examine factors influencing mental health and wellbeing across the lifespan, and understand vulnerability and resilience in the context of psychological and cognitive process. The course also explores approaches to treatment, looking at therapy and counselling skills and exploring the theory behind these This degree aligns closely with the Psychology BSc (Hons) degree. The specialist elements of the programme are taught by a mix of experienced practitioners, researchers, and guest speakers from a variety of backgrounds such as working with those who have complex mental health needs. Areas of expertise within the teaching staff on the course, include psychobiological mechanism of mental health vulnerability, mindfulness in children, and models of wellbeing. There is also expertise in areas such as sleep, gambling, and eating disorders across the wider School of Psychology. These are offered as electives in the third year to enable further specialisation to complement the core mental health programme.
Why Choose Lincoln
Accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS)
Conduct research alongside our expert academic team
A range of optional modules
Specialist facilities including sleep, EEG, and psychophysiology labs
International study and work experience options
How You Study
Our School aims to produce graduates who are critical thinkers and independent researchers. This means that graduating students are expected to be able to tackle psychological problems and issues as independent researchers taking a critical and analytical approach.
The course also aims to equip you with the ability to reflect on the nature of human behaviour in an informed and systematic manner, and to provide them with an opportunity to gain an understanding of the scope of clinical psychology theory and practice.
During the final year, you can choose from a wide selection of optional modules and are expected to complete an extended independent study. At this stage, it is expected that the majority of your studies will be determined by your interests and career aspirations.
ll be expected to contribute to small group sessions and to undertake independent study.", 'There are dedicated Psychology Labs for student projects as well as the research labs that you may use as part of your final year research project.
Course materials are posted to an online virtual learning environment to supplement face to face teaching and to support onsite and remote study.
ll be expected to actively contribute to small group sessions and to undertake independent study. Course materials are posted to an online virtual learning environment to supplement face to face teaching and to support onsite and remote study.", 'There are dedicated Psychology Labs for student projects as well as the research labs that you may use as part of your final year research project.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The aims of the module assessments are to provide a measure of the development and attainment of course outcomes, including the attainment of high-level intellectual skills such as critical analysis and evaluation.
Accordingly, the nature of the assessment varies across the three levels of the course. The assessments at levels one and two aim to focus on the acquisition and understanding of knowledge and skills. In contrast, the level three assessments place far greater emphasis on the ability to apply, analyse, and evaluate knowledge.
re assessed may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, research reports, research diaries, research or clinical proposals, or dissertations; practical exams, such as oral and poster presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations, essay-based examinations, or in-class tests (including multiple-choice tests and short-answer questions).", 'How you are assessed
re assessed may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, research reports, research diaries, research or clinical proposals, or dissertations; practical exams, such as oral and poster presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations, essay-based examinations, or in-class tests (including multiple-choice tests and short-answer questions).", 'BPS Accreditation
The course is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered membership (GBC) the first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist. The BPS is the main professional body representing psychology and psychologists in the UK.
International Study and Work Experience
ll be able to select one of the following options:", 'International Study
This option provides an opportunity to explore study in a new overseas culture and environment at one of the University's approved partner institutions. Choosing this option leads to (International Study) being added to your award title upon successful completion of the course. You can find out more on our Global Opportunities webpage.
Work Experience
This option offers the opportunity to enhance your personal and professional development by gaining experience in a realworkplace setting, which could help develop the skills relevant to future employment or further study. Selecting this option leads to (Work Experience) being added to your award title upon successful completion of the course.
Both options aim to enhance your future employment opportunities and offer the chance to gain an understanding of the field in real-world settings. Please note, you will need to cover the costs associated with these year-long study options, including accommodation, travel expenses, and general living costs.
Extracurricular Activities
New students can join groups within the school including those that support LGBTQIA+, disability, BAME, mature students, commuters, and carers.u202fStudents can also join DigiPsych, our on-line magazine run for students by students in the School of Psychology. DigiPsych publishes anything that may be of interest to psychology students including reviews of psychological and non-psychological articles, stories, and opinion pieces.
Moreover, we have a weekly programme of guest lecturers invited from all over the world. Previous speakers for our special Lincoln International Seminars include Elizabeth Loftus. In addition to our work experience opportunities, many modules include employer presentations and activities. Students can also meet employers at our annual Psychology Works careers fair.u202f
Students are also encouraged to network with our alumni.u202f We have approximately 100 graduates from Psychology, representing a variety of professional roles, offering networking, and mentoring to current students.u202f
Research
Our School aims to produce critical thinkers and independent researchers who are able to tackle psychological problems and issues using a systematic, critical, and analytical approach.
As part of this process, first year students undertake training in areas important to psychological research, such as using statistics software. In the second year, students may be able to utilise these skills by working alongside an academic supervisor to conduct an original research project. This culminates with students being able to undertake a substantial research study of their own for the dissertation component of their degree.
In addition to the taught components of research, students are encouraged to participate in the research culture of the School more broadly, with the opportunity to be involved as volunteers in research activities, such as our Summer Scientist programme, and to compete for paid studentships offered by the University of Lincoln and the British Psychological Society to conduct further research over the summer, typically in between the second and third year of the course.
We also have a number of active research groups within the school. These are conducting exciting research into areas such as mindfulness interventions in adults, the effect of dog-assisted interventions in school children, investigating the impact of calorie menu labelling on those with eating disorders, and neural entrainment of brain rhythms to aid sleep. You can read more on our Research webpage.
Research Laboratories and Facilities
The University has invested 19 million in the Sarah Swift Building, a dedicated facility forthe School of Psychology. Our range of specialist researchlaboratoriesallow you to gain practical experience. You will also have access to ICT suites and technical staff who can offer support in the design and execution of experiments and assistance with specialist software.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) Laboratory
The EEG lab allows our researchers to identify activation patterns in the cerebrum, in response to stimuli, to find out when and which parts of the brain respond to these. 
Eye-tracking Laboratory
Research in this lab investigates how visual cognition is shaped and influenced by our environment, experience and knowledge. Current research is examining how visual cues are processed in the brain.
Lincoln Infant and Child Development Laboratory
Research here categorises conceptual development including speech perception, language acquisition - particularly word learning and grammar. 
Molecular Laboratory
The Molecular laboratory houses a contained wet lab for chemical and biological analyses on site and stores samples from participants before, during, and after processing and analysis.
Sleep Laboratory
This dedicated facility conducts full polysomnography, actigraphy, home sleep monitoring, and computerised behavioural testing in the areas of neuroscience, sleep, and wellbeing.
What Can I Do with a Psychology with Mental Health Degree?
This programme provides Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society (BPS) and as such, you will be well-placed to consider further professional training in psychology. Graduates of this degree may wish to consider working in range of fields that relate to mental health as well as progressing to postgraduate study, working in healthcare or other settings related to mental health e.g. charity organisations. Students can also progress to develop further research expertise through conducting a MRes or PhD or use their transferable skills to contribute more widely outside of the area of mental health.
Lincoln is an extremely supportive and community driven university, with the interests and voice of its students at the heart of the Psychology department.
Lauren Chamberlain-Jones
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Mental Health
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths or Statistics. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications.
In addition to meeting the academic requirements, overseas students will also be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. Please visit our English language requirements page for a full list of the English qualifications we accept. https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
Can we help? The University of Lincoln offer a dedicated support service for overseas students. If you have any questions about your qualifications, or would like assistance in submitting your application, please contact our https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/contactus/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
T Level:  Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma:  45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths or Statistics. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Education and Psychology
BSc (Hons) Psychology
BSc (Hons) Psychology (Sport and Exercise Psychology)
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Forensic Psychology
