Sports Business Management
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
N290
Academic Years
Sport is a social and economic phenomenon and this degree has been designed to examine critically the business decisions that shape this lucrative global industry.
 skills for the critical analysis of sport, sport spaces, products, services, and operations.", 'The course examines the breadth and power of sports participation and business on individuals and societies. It looks at the global structure of sports and the complexities, challenges, and issues that are often involved in reconciling government objectives with personal and community aspirations.
Why Choose Lincoln?
Hands-on experience during a professional practice year
Optional study visits to sports industry destinations
How You Study
 learning.", 'During their final year, students can choose to work on client projects or develop their own independent, sports-focused research.
Students on this course are able to take a year-long work placement after their second year, providing a chance to gain experience and apply their learning in practice. Students are expected to source their own placement, but tutors can provide support during the process if required. Those who choose to take a placement do not pay tuition fees for that year, but must cover their own travel, accommodation, and living costs.
s Journey", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
Modules
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. Assessments will mostly be individual tasks, but students may also be expected to work in a group on an assessment task.  
Students will receive feedback throughout the term to help them prepare for assessments. This may be through formative assessment (such as ungraded presentations or mock questions), directed activities in seminars, or informal discussions with the seminar tutor. Formative feedback may not be written down, and maybe directed to a group as well as to an individual. Students will also receive feedback on graded assessments. This usually includes comments detailing the quality of the work and how the student could improve their performance, as well as a highlighted criteria grid identifying performance against the assessed learning outcomes. 
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'How you are assessed
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Professional PracticeYear
t have to pay tuition fees for this year, but you will need to cover your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Studentswho complete the one-yearprofessional practice placement willbe awarded aBA (Hons) Sports Business Management (with Professional Practice). Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons)Sports BusinessManagement, or equivalent exit award.
International Study Year
t have to paytuition fees for that year but will be required to cover your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Study Visits
Students may be able to take part in optional study visits throughout the course to sports industry destinations. Students can expect to pay between 15 and 40 for each visit, which may be used for food, drinks, and admission fees to events and venues. Previous destinations have included Londons Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park and major UK football clubs. Compulsory study visits that are linked to core modules will typically be free of charge.
Industry Expertise
Students can hear from guest speakers who will share their industry expertise and professional practice experience. Recent speakers have included Lincoln City FC Marketing Manager, who explained the digital marketing and marketing strategies at Lincoln City FC; Commercial Director for Squash England, who discussedsponsorshipof the sport; Race Director for Hull Marathon, who detailed theorganisation of anevent; and RAF Personal Training Instructor, who applied his experience to business outside of themilitary.
The course has played a huge role in my career in the football industry. I gained valuable knowledge and learnt from some very talented lecturers and tutors, which was crucial in helping me secure my job.
Jake Longworth
BA (Hons) Sports Business Management
What Can I Do with a Sports Business Management Degree?
Sports Business Management graduates have gone on to work in a variety of sectors and industries. Some have gained employment at professional football clubs, national governing bodies, sports marketing agencies, and in the hospitality industry, business management, logistics, digital marketing, and advertising.
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages:
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
https://www.lincoln.ac....andacademicstudyskills/
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Business
BA (Hons) Business and Management
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing
BA (Hons) Business Economics
BA (Hons) Business with Entrepreneurship
BA (Hons) International Business Management
BSc (Hons) Physical Education and Sport
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science
BSc (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching
BA (Hons) Business and Finance
