Sport and Exercise Science
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C600
Academic Years
Sports scientists combine theoretical knowledge with the practical application of scientific principles and technology to help individuals maximise their sports performance.
This multi-disciplinary degree has been developed in response to the growing prominence of sport and exercise science in athletic performance, and the role that sport and physical activity can play in improving health.
The programme aims to develop your knowledge, understanding, and practical skills in key areas of physiology, biomechanics, psychology and nutrition, in order to understand their impact on sports performance, physical activity, and health. A number of elective modules are aligned to relevant professional standards which means that students are able to apply for industry-recognised standalone certification in Gym Instruction, Personal Training, and/or Exercise Referral at an additional cost.
Our BSc Sport and Exercise Science degree is a multi-disciplinary course which combines theoretical knowledge with the practical application of scientific principles. Whilst studying this course, you can participate in a wide range of topics relating to sport and exercise science, developing knowledge, understanding, and practical skills in key areas of physiology, biomechanics, psychology, and nutrition. Accredited and experienced teaching staff deliver research informed teaching and practice on a range of areas, from applied athletic performance to supporting health and wellbeing.
Practical sessions within the course help you to contextualise theory, and you will have access to our purpose-built Human Performance Centre. This industry-standard facility includes bespoke physiology laboratories, a biomechanics laboratory, and specific practical spaces to support modules on gym instruction and personal training.
s professional body for sport and exercise sciences, with additional endorsement from The Chartered Institute for the Management of Sport and Physical Activity (CIMSPA) for gym instructor and personal trainer modules.", 'Why Choose Lincoln?
CIMSPA endorsed programme for Gym Instructor and Personal Trainer
Modules led and taught by BASES and CIMSPA accredited staff members
Endorsed by the British Association of Sport and Exercise Science (BASES)
Opportunities to apply your theoretical understanding and gain practical knowledge using our purpose-built Human Performance Centre 
How You Study
This degree reflects current research-informed teaching and innovation within the sector.
The first year of the programme is designed to provide the essential foundations of sport and exercise science theory, completing four sport science-specific modules across the key disciplines of biomechanics, psychology, physiology and nutrition, and one broader module to develop their research skills.
 preferences and longer-term plans - selecting three options from Applied Health Physiology, Applied Exercise Physiology, Exercise Instruction and Nutrition for Health and Performance.", "In the third year, you can tailor the degree to your own preferences and future plans, and choose three from a selection of seven optional modules to study across a range of disciplines and contexts. This is alongside the completion of your final year dissertation which gives you the chance to apply research skills developed in your first two years, to plan and complete a specific research project relating to a topic you're interested in.", 'We want to ensure our students to become the best graduates they can be, and in addition to interactive lectures and seminars, weekly laboratory and/or practical sessions, guest speakers, web-based activities, and staff-student research projects, we encourage students to deliver sports science workshops to school groups and sports clubs, and undertake their own independent research ideas (e.g. dissertation), and offer a wide range of voluntary applied sports science roles.
Each of our students is also paired up with a member of staff as their personal tutor from the very first week of enrolment, in order to help them settle in, discuss issues or questions they have, and to help guide and develop their academic growth and extracurricular experience towards any post-degree plans they may have.
BASES Endorsement
s professional body for sport and exercise sciences. This accreditation recognises degrees which incorporate the knowledge, skills and professional development opportunities that are considered essential for sport and exercise science students to succeed in the industry.", 'Guest Lectures
Students can benefit from guest lectures from a variety of guest lecturers. Previous lectures have included a session on genetics from Dr Ian Varley and sessions on coronary heart disease from Dr Jo Blackwell, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Lincoln.
CIMSPA Endorsement
s commitment to ensuring students' teaching and learning is aligned to industry standards. For a student to register with CIMSPA and arrange certification for professional standards gained during this degree, a small administration charge would be required. ", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
Modules
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
The biomechanics, exercise physiology, and the strength and conditioning modules really helped progress my career as a physiotherapist.
Stuart Tijanic
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science, Specialist Respiratory Physiotherapist at NHS
Placements
ll have the option to apply to complete a study abroad or placement year in industry (e.g. professional sports club) as part of the degree.", 'The placement year is a full-time position in a role relevant to your studies, and is an excellent opportunity to gain relevant work experience.
When undertaking a placement, you will be responsible for covering your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Students who require a visa to study in the UK must remain compliant with the conditions of that visa for a placement year. Our International Advice Team are on hand in Lincoln to help you understand what any limitations might be, so that we can ensure you can make the most of any opportunities available to you.
Partnered with Lincoln City Football Club
Our ongoing partnership with Lincoln City FC offers you opportunities to undertake work placement or internship opportunities, as well as providing a potential pathway for full-time employment after you graduate. Many Lincoln graduates are employed within the organisation in roles spanning coaching, physiotherapy, sports science, and performance analysis.
Industry Experience
Students can support pre-season fitness testing with Lincoln City Women FC and gain hands-on experience through the delivery of fitness testing. There are also plenty of opportunities for sport and exercise science students to engage with our in-house consultancy team, delivering high-quality sport science support to a variety of sport and health professionals.
Facilities
Our Human Performance Centre offers dedicated practical and teaching spaces including physiology laboratories, a psychology laboratory, consultation suites, and specific practical spaces to support exercise instruction and referral work. Our experienced staff have academic and professional expertise in a range of areas including sport and exercise physiology, sports biomechanics, sports psychology, coach education, and sports nutrition. High-profile sports organisations have used the facilities, including British Canoeing and British Ice Skating. 
The teaching staff were constantly supporting us and always available for any questions. Furthermore, my degree aided me in a getting a job which I didnt think Id have the right qualifications to apply for, so Ill always have Lincoln to thank for that.
Maysie Stedman
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science, Health and Wellbeing Physiologist at Nuffield Health
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
Assessment methods used include written examinations, multiple choice examinations, written assignments, lab reports, presentations, practical assessments, and short-format assessments.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least five GCSEs at grade 4  or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of five at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and a Science or sport related subject. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
What Can I Do with a Sports and Exercise Science Degree?
Given the wide range of transferable skills students gain through this programme, our graduates have gone onto exciting careers such as: sport and exercise psychologist, specialist respiratory physiotherapist, strength and conditioning coach, health and wellbeing coach, cardiac rehabilitation exercise physiologist, and football development officer (disability and inclusion). Students can also undertake further study.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Sports Business Management
BSc (Hons) Physical Education and Sport
BSc (Hons) Psychology (Sport and Exercise Psychology)
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy
BSc (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching
BSc (Hons) Strength and Conditioning in Sport
