Marketing and Advertising
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
PN25
Academic Years
Successful marketing lies at the heart of commercial success, and professionals with the skills, knowledge, and creativity to deliver powerful national and international marketing campaigns are highly sought after.  
BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising aims to develop graduates who have an understanding of the role of these key functions in business and society, and to be equipped for roles across the full spectrum of an ever-evolving marketing industry, from insight through to action and from both client and agency side, within advertising, branding, and marketing communications. To achieve this, you are encouraged to develop the ability to apply marketing techniques at strategic and operational levels to meet business objectives, and to be creative problem solvers with confidence, business acumen and skills in persuasive communication, presenting, and teamwork.  
You will be introduced to the fundamentals of strategic marketing and advertising communications, including buyer behaviour, brand development, the advertising process and creativity, media planning, ethics and responsibility, and global marketing. This degree specifically addresses the rapid growth in digital marketing and the need from industry for new graduates with knowledge of marketing, advertising, and digital awareness and skills.
Why Choose Lincoln?
Subject area ranked in the top 20 in the UK*
Accredited by the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM)
Optional year-long study abroad
Graduates working at  Airbus, Amazon, Asos, Bosch, Greene King, Next, Sky, Ogilvy, VCCP, and X.
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 78 ranking institutions)
How You Study
Key aspects of the industry are explored and debated as students move from a general business, marketing, and advertising grounding in year one to more specialist modules in years two and three. The focus is on building marketing and advertising competencies, such as creativity, problem-solving, oral and written presentation, and persuasive communication.  
In the first year, you are introduced to the foundations of marketing, advertising and general business, including examining organisational behaviour and understanding business data. 
In the second year, the course builds on these foundations exploring concepts and processes such as strategic marketing planning and the application of advertising and marketing. In the final year, modules explore specific areas of marketing, media, branding, and advertising, alongside an independent project where you can choose to focus within the field of advertising and/or marketing.
Across the three years of this course, you can explore and debate key aspects of the industry, developing important competencies, such as creativity, problem-solving, oral and written presentation, and persuasive communication. The course begins by building your general business, marketing, and advertising grounding in the first year, enabling you to specialise in certain areas across the second and third years.
In the first year, you can study the foundations of marketing, advertising, and general business, including examining organisational behaviour and understanding business data.
In the second year, the course builds on these foundations exploring concepts and processes such as strategic marketing planning and the application of advertising and marketing.  In the final year, modules explore specific areas which can include marketing, media, branding, and advertising, alongside an independent project where you can choose to focus within the field of advertising and/or marketing.  The importance of digital marketing is acknowledged throughout the course, and you are able to develop digital knowledge from the outset. 
Students can learn from academic staff who are often engaged in internationally recognised research or professional practice. 
live' case material and can offer students access to industry contacts and careers advice. Seminars are smaller-group sessions where students have the opportunity to discuss, debate, and build on learning from lectures and independent reading. Further contact time can be in workshops, guest lectures, field visits, and varies by module. All students have a personal tutor and access to one-to-one meetings.", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
Modules
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Industry Expertise
Students can hear from guest speakers who will share their industry expertise and professional practice experience. Recent speakers have included Senior Director Marketing Effectiveness at Mars, Advertising Strategist at Spindogs, Planning Director at BBDO, and Account Manager at VCCP.
How you are assessed
The degree uses a range of assessment types which can assess individual performance and group performance to reflect the variety of learning styles in students. Assessments can include coursework such as written assignments, essays, reports, portfolios, and reflective logs; practical work including presentations, exhibitions, role play, and oral assessments; and exams including in-class tests or written exams. 
s work to support learning throughout the degree. Where possible feedback is available electronically. Students have access to one-to-one meetings to receive personalised feedback about their performance.", 'How you are assessed
s work to support learning throughout the degree. Where possible feedback is available electronically. Students have access to one-to-one meetings to receive personalised feedback about their performance.", 'Accreditation
advanced standing'. This will enable students to study for CIM qualifications without needing to complete all of the modules. Students can also add an individual award to supplement their degree (note that this incurs some additional cost).", 'Professional PracticeYear
t have to pay tuition fees for this year, but you will need to cover your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Studentswho complete the one-yearprofessional practice placement willbe awarded aBA (Hons)Marketing and Advertising(with Professional Practice). Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising, or equivalent exit award.
International Year Abroad
s approved partner institutions.", "The year-long module enables students to spend time studying abroad at one of the University's approved partner institutions, sharing classes with local students and studying locally-delivered taught modules which have been approved by the University.As many partner institutions support internships it is also possible for students will elect to combine study (minimum one semester equivalent) with work and or a period of volunteering.", 'Eligible students must have completed their second year of study to a satisfactory standard (normally with an average of a 2.2 or above, dependent upon partner requirements) standard and successfully completed the application process.
Upon completion of the study period abroad, each student will be required to submit a portfolio including a reflection on the experience of living and studying in a different cultural environment and the skills acquired.Successful completion of the International Year Abroadwill be reflected in the award title - BA (Hons)Marketing and Advertising(International Study Year).
Course fees (for the time spent studying) are covered. However, students will need to cover costs for flights, accommodation, and living expenses (which will vary by country). There may be opportunities for additional funding through scholarships (dependent on availability).
OptionalField Trips
Students may be invited to join optional field trips throughout their studies to see effective marketing in action. Previously trips have included visits to Jaguar Land Rover, the Museum of Brands, and the World Marketing Summit. These trips may have an additional cost. In addition, there is an optional visit to advertising agencies in New York, which is funded at student's own expense.
I would recommend this course to anyone who is looking for a career in the industry. It is led by fantastic lecturers and it didnt just open my eyes to the world of advertising and marketing, it also helped to develop my passion for the subject.
Tom Porter
BA (Hons) Marketing and Advertising
What Can I Do with an Marketing and AdvertisingDegree?
Recent Marketing and Advertising graduates have gone on to work in a variety of sectors and roles across the public, charity, private sectors, including advertising agency account management, digital marketing, marketing research and insights, sales, merchandising, and full-service marketing.
Some of our most recent graduates have gone on to work in organisations such as X, Nielsen, Nestle, Mediacom, Centre Parcs, Notts County Football Club, Bosch, Dyson and Joules. Others have equally rewarding roles in marketing agencies such as Krow, Ketchup, The Marketing Practice, Carrington Communications, Rise at Seven, and Moreish. Graduates have also gone onto advertising agencies such as VCCP, Grey, Ogilvy, and McCann.
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
International students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac....andacademicstudyskills/
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing
BA (Hons) Creative Advertising
BA (Hons) Events Management
