Animation and Visual Effects
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years with Foundation Year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
W270
Academic Years
Animation and Visual Effects at Lincoln offers an introduction to the innovative world of animation and visual effects through moving image, digital visualisation, and contemporary narrative.
The course enables students to develop into creative animators and artists with the flexibility to practise their craft in a variety of media. It covers a range of skills, including the fundamentals of animation, storytelling, performance, design, drawing, 3D modelling, 2D and computer-generated animation, compositing, animation theory, and the production of short films.
The Lincoln School of Film and Media has had success at the Royal Television Society awards. In 2019, student film Papier won Best Animation at the awards. The animation was made by students Tabitha Lay, Emily Leaning, Katie Thomas, Natasha Ray, and Charlie Bartlett. Student animations Harlem Nocturne and Uplifted were also nominated in the Best Animation category at the awards.
This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry onto the full degree programme. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/.
Why Choose Lincoln
Access industry-standard facilities and equipment 
Take part in study trips and overseas visits to exciting destinations
Take part in industry competitions and award schemes 
Work collaboratively with students across multiple disciplines
Subject are ranked in the top 20 overall in the UK*
* Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 55 ranking institutions)
How You Study
This course aims to provide a thorough grounding in classical animation principles as well as an introduction to digital techniques for animation and visual effects.
Life drawing forms an integral part of the programme, combined with developing narrative, character design, and animation techniques. Students are encouraged to participate in various stages of production, such as character animation, art direction and lighting, digital compositing and effects, post-production techniques, and production management. 
In the final year, they can work as part of a team to produce a short film that sets the premise for their personal showreel. 
Industry practitioners are part of the teaching team on the course including film, television, and video games animators.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Each term includes advisory progress reviews. All studio modules are assessed on both studio production and supporting research presentation, with varying weightings.
Student Work Showcase
Luma Street by D. Escobar, A. Horsepool, S.Brierly, A Stokes, and A Kirkwood.
Watermill by Abigail Cooke.
Featherless by Mathew Dame and Ngou-Yin Wong.
Study Trips
Students on this course have the opportunity to take part in study trips and overseas visits. Recent destinations have included the Anime Festival in Tokyo; Annecy International Animated Film Festival in France; the Walt Disney Studios and Jim Henson Studios in Los Angeles; NBC; the University of California; and Warner Bros. Studios.
Those who choose to participate in optional field trips are expected to cover the cost of their travel, accommodation, and general living expenses. Any trips included within a compulsory module, such as a visit to an animation or VFX studio in previous years, are fully-funded.
t have been able to do this were it not for the phenomenal guidance and expert tuition I received at the University of Lincoln.", 'Thaxnay Kapdee
BA (Hons) Animation 
Specialist Facilities
What Can I Do with an Animation and Visual Effects Degree?
re Going on a Bear Hunt.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit, or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Students participating in optional field trips are expected to pay for the cost of their travel, accommodation, and general living expenses. Any trips included within a compulsory module are fully funded.
Additional material costs depend on the mediums you choose to work in.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Fine Art
BA (Hons) Graphic Design
BA (Hons) Illustration
