Bachelor of Architecture with Honours
 | BArch (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Part-time
Up to 6 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
K100
Academic Year
The historic city of Lincoln has roots in Roman Britain, providing an inspiring context in which to explore architecture and learn about heritage and archaeology in relation to contemporary architectural design.
The BArch (Hons) Architecture degree aims to prepare students for a career in the exciting field of architectural practice, placing a strong emphasis on design and creativity. The University is part of the well-established RIBA Mentoring Scheme, giving third-year students the opportunity to gain real-world experience with professional architects.
The programme is validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects and prescribed by the Architects Registration Board as providing exemption from Part 1 examinations, which are required to register as an architect in the UK.
The course forms the first stage of a three-part programme of education and training for aspiring architects. The University of Lincoln also runs RIBA / ARB Parts 2 and 3 programmes, and all three parts are required to register as an architect in the UK.
There is a strong emphasis on design and creativity and the course aims to prepare students for a global career in the exciting field of architectural practice. 
We are designers working to create imaginative and practical building designs. The Lincoln School of Architecture and the Built Environment is a cooperative, multidisciplinary environment for sharing ideas, which aims to support students in discovering their own design approach.
Why Choose Lincoln
Course validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects
Architects Registration Board examination exemptions
Specialist facilities and bespoke studios
Benefit from the RIBA student mentoring scheme
Connections with regional and international companies
Take part in Lincoln Architecture and Design Society trips and visits
How You Study
On this course, students can study the underlying concepts of architecture and the ways in which a building can meet the needs of its occupants and of society. They are encouraged to learn important drawing techniques, alongside computer-aided design (CAD), and hands-on modelling.
Histories and theories of architecture are introduced in the first year, along with design theory, processes and practices, building construction, environmental design. In the second and third years, students are able to work on a series of independent and collaborative projects, and to shape their learning in line with their interests. These projects aim to prepare students for work in the industry. 
The programme aims to bring out your creative potential, explore design processes, and lay a foundation of cultural and technical knowledge. Students have the opportunity to participate in practical explorations of materials and construction techniques which can lead to adventurous designs. 
The course is designed to address the social, theoretical, and contextual issues of living in the contemporary city. Design projects aim to build confidence in responding with imagination, humanity, and concern for the environment.
As an architecture student, you will spend time in dedicated studio session during which you will develop your knowledge and skills. You will undertake projects through a blend of theoretical, practical, individual and collaborative methods. These include, lectures, tutorials, seminars, workshops and directed studies. This may be augmented by site and live project visits when possible.
Meet Our Graduates!
s how our Architecture graduates valued their time at Lincoln. Find out what our graduates enjoyed, what they miss about University and how their course prepared them for their careers.", '
How you are assessed
For this course assessment is 100% by coursework in each year. The way students are assessed may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports and projects, or reviews of creative output. 
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days of the submission date. ", 'The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports and projects, or reviews of creative output. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year.
Accreditation
This course is validated by the Royal Institute of British Architects and prescribed by the Architects Registration Board as providing exemption from Part 1 examinations, which are required to register as an architect in the UK.
RIBA Mentoring Scheme
Architecture at Lincoln is part of the well-established RIBA student mentoring scheme. Third-year students are paired with architects in the Midlands region and can gain experience over a series of days, providing opportunities for site visits to observe how architects work.
Industry Links
Rourke, and Foster + Partners. These can offer the opportunity to get involved in placements, live projects, site and factory visits, and events. Students may gain a hands-on understanding of construction, fabrication, procurement processes, manufacture, and materials. Furthermore, RIBA East Midlands can offer opportunities for continued professional development events.", 'My time at Lincoln has enhanced the meaning of architecture, allowing me to understand how it impacts people and place. The teaching has helped me to analyse opportunities and constraints in a much more rigorous way. The collaboration with my tutors gave me the support to allow me to succeed. 
Callum Pell
BArch (Hons) Architecture
Trips and Study Abroad
 Union. The Society usually organises two trips per year - one regional and one international. There may be costs associated with trips.", 'In addition, there is the opportunity to take part in the well-established Erasmus programme, which enables you to study abroad as part of your course. Please note that students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living expenses while undertaking study abroad.
Specialist Facilities
The Lincoln School of Architecture and the Built Environment offers specialist facilities for students to develop their creative and practical skills in preparation for their future career.
Dedicated CAD Lab
Students from the Lincoln School of Architecture and the Built Environment benefit from a dedicated CAD Lab of high-end PCs equipped with CAD software such as the industry standard Autodesk Revit Building Information Modelling (BIM) Software.
Bespoke Fully Equipped Studios
Multi-materials Workshops
Specialist Printing
A range of specialist and large format printers are housed in the Peter de Wint Building. Students can print their work on a range of specialist papers up to A0 size.
What Can I Do with an Architecture Degree?
The BArch (Hons) Architecture forms the first stage of a three-part programme of education and training for aspiring architects. The University of Lincoln also runs RIBA/ARB Parts 2 and 3 courses, which students must successfully complete to become a registered architect. Lincoln graduates work all over the world in public and private practice, in planning, housing, and design-based professions. During the course, mock interviews take place to help you prepare for job interviews. There may also be the opportunity to receive portfolio advice.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
T Levels: Merit
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
A combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTEC, EPQ, etc.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry.  We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Application and Portfolios
While you do not usually need to attend an interview, you will be invited to submit a digital portfolio as part of your application. The digital portfolio should be a multipage PDF file that demonstrates your interest in architecture and design.
You have the freedom to format the digital portfolio in a way that reflects your personality and inner creativity. The portfolio could include any kinds of drawing, illustration, artwork, physical and virtual 3D models, photography, or any related work. You need to caption your work and provide descriptions. It is recommended you include between 7 to 15 pieces of work in the portfolio.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Standard workshop induction costs are usually covered by the University, as are some initial printing and material costs. However, depending on the media/materials chosen by the student, there may be additional material and printing costs incurred.
Mandatory field trip costs are covered by the University, but optional study visits which may include international trips or a student exchange programme, are at the students own expense.
Find out More by Visiting Us
