Banking and Finance
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
N300
Academic Years
From the City of London to Singapore, Frankfurt to New York, the banking sector offers lucrative and rewarding careers for graduates with the skills and drive to succeed in a highly competitive global industry.
s Banking and Finance degree is aimed at those who aspire to a career in range of industry roles including securities analyst, financial or investment manager, or as a private, commercial, or investment banker.", 'During this course, students are encouraged to examine how the economy works, how decisions are made, and how financial systems and capital markets operate in an international context. Students are asked to explore how government policies influence stock markets and prices, as well as how private and corporate wealth is created.
A number of our academics teaching Banking and Finance at Lincoln have knowledge and practical expertise gained from experience in the sector, which gives students the opportunity to learn about real-world scenarios.
s Banking and Finance degree is aimed at those who aspire to a career in range of industry roles including securities analyst, financial or investment manager, or as a private, commercial, or investment banker.", 'During this course, students are encouraged to explore how the economy works, how decisions are made, and how financial systems and capital markets operate in an international context. 
Many academics teaching this programme possess a blend of research and practical expertise in the field of banking and finance, helping to ensure that students are well-prepared for a career in this industry.
Why Choose Lincoln
Access to industry-standard Bloomberg Terminal
Hands-on experience during a work placement year
Staff with practical experience of banking and finance
How You Study
Throughout the course, students are able to learn the foundations of economic principles, accounting and finance, and business data analysis. They then progress to study more advanced financial and banking management.
The final year provides students with the flexibility to tailor their degree to their specific interests, with a range of optional modules available.
Throughout the course, students have the opportunity to learn the fundamentals of economic principles, accounting and finance, and business data analysis. They then progress to study more advanced financial and banking management.
The final year provides students with the flexibility to customise their degree to their specific interests, with a range of optional modules available.
The support from tutors, lecturers, and the programme leader was unmatched. The programme equipped me with all of the necessary knowledge and skills to begin my career as a finance manager at Procter and Gamble.
Matteo Di Rossi
BSc (Hons) Banking and Finance, Finance Manager at P and G UK
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way in which you will be assessed may include coursework, written and practical exams, portfolio development, group work, or presentations. 
The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Work Placement Year
All full-time students on this course have the opportunity to take a year-longwork placement after the second year. A work placement can allow students to gain valuable experience and apply their learning in practice. Students are expected to source their own placements and tutors can provide support and advice during this process if required.
Please note that students who choose to undertake a work placement do not pay tuition fees for that year, but are required to cover their travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Guest Lectures
To help give our students insight into industry and prepare them for their future careers, we host a number of guest lectures across the programme. Previous lectures have been delivered by guests from companies such as, J.P. Morgan, Volkswagen, Curve, Handelsbanken, and Natwest Group London, and covered topics such as placements in finance, private banking and wealth, and graduate careers in banking.
Bloomberg Terminal
Students can use our Bloomberg Terminal, which is designed to help industry professionals make better-informed investment decisions by offering the latest market news along with historical data and an international network to communicate securely and reliably. Bloomberg offers a practical resource for students to reinforce the theories they learn in lectures, and enable them to become familiar with the tools used by todays financial services professionals.
Student Managed Investment Fund
Lincoln International Business School offers the Student Managed Investment Fund (LSMIF), which is an investment fund created, operated, and maintained by students within the school, with everything running within the real-world environment of finance.
One of only a handful of its kind in the UK, students will be managing real money with the objective of making positive returns while managing risk. Industry veteran and long-time lecturer Hao Quach can help support the students throughout, utilising his years of experience in all aspects of investment banking and 20 years teaching in many countries.
Trading Simulation Event
Students on the programme are given the opportunity to practise real-life trading at a simulation event. During theevent, delivered in partnership withAmplify Trading,youget the chance to understand and experience different roles and practices within the trading sector, such as buyers, investors, asset managers, and hedge funds.
The course gave me a well-rounded skill set to enter the real world of finance, including skills in financial modelling, valuation techniques, financial planning, corporate finance, econometrics, and banking.
Nathan Smith
BSc (Hons) Banking and Finance, Trainee Financial Planner at Mazars
What Can I Do with a Banking and Finance Degree?
s Palace, Mazars, de Vere and partners, P and G, and Mondelz International.", 'Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs to include a grade 6 in Maths, a 4 in English and one further GCSE graded at 4 or above.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit .
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s: Minimum of three to include a grade 6 in Maths, a 4 in English and one further GCSE graded at 4 or above. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac....andacademicstudyskills/
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Business and Finance
BA (Hons) Business Economics
BSc (Hons) Economics
BA (Hons) Accountancy and Finance
