BRCGS Lead Auditor
 | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Programme Type
Short Course
Delivery
Five-day Course
Cost
1300
Next Start Date
22 April 2024
Our April 2024 course is now fully booked. We do, however, have places available on our dates in July 2024.
This course aims to train delegates in third party audit requirements against the new Global Standard for Food Safety Issue 9. In addition, the course includes all relevant aspects of auditing within the food sector. This course is aimed at technical and quality managers and  prospective certification body auditors and consultants. Attending this course allows you the opportunity to develop an in-depth and practical understanding of the BRC standard and auditing methodology.
This qualification does not guarantee employment as an auditor with a certification body. All audits to the BRCGS Global Standard have to be carried out by accredited certification bodies who may use either permanent staff or sub-contracted auditors. This course aims to provide knowledge of auditing skills and of the standard required to become an auditor. Before employing an auditor, certification bodies will have to be satisfied that the auditor has the basic educational requirements and experience (minimum 5 years), and will need to conduct the necessary practical assessment of auditing performance before audits can be carried out.
Delegates must have a working knowledge of quality management systems and auditing within the relevant manufacturing sector, and completed a Level 3 HACCP course (minimum 2 days duration). Multiple choice open book online exam on the final day of the course.
Key Features
Aligned to requirements for the Global Standard for Food Safety Issue 9
On-site delivery at the National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Can be delivered on business premises
Regular start dates each year
Course Dates
How You Study
This five-day course is delivered on site at the National Centre for Food Manufacturing in Holbeach and can also be delivered on business premises.
Course content includes the following topics:
- The requirements (clause by clause)- BRCGS unit aims and objectives- BRCGS audit concepts- Auditor skills- Audit report writing- Interactive workshops with various case studies- Roleplay exercises.
Attendees should read and review the Global Standard for Food Safety Issue 9 prior to attendance on the course. Please select the free version at https://www.brcgs.com/product/global-standard-food-safety-(issue-9)/p-13279/ and bring this along to the course.
How you are assessed
The course is assessed through a multiple choice open book online exam on the final day of the course.
Explore Flexible Learning
From short courses and microcredentials, to professional development modules and fully online Masters degrees, we offer a range of flexible programmes to suit your individual needs. Our suite of programmes uses a variety of delivery methods, including online-only, face-to-face, blended, and distance-learning approaches.
