Biochemistry
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years if taken with the optional sandwich year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C700
Academic Years
Biochemistry offers an understanding of the biological and chemical processes that allow life to thrive, giving us the tools we need to solve key challenges in cell biology, pathology, pharmacology, physiology, and genetics. Advances in the field have revolutionised our knowledge of how biochemistry works and the mechanisms that underpin a wide range of cellular processes. This enables us to respond to human health problems and diseases by rationally designing new strategies and drugs as treatments.
s expertise in pharmacology, biomedical science, biology, and biotechnology. Students have the opportunity to develop skills in practical laboratory techniques, data interpretation, critical analysis, computational skills allied to biochemistry, and scientific writing.", 'Biochemistry offers an understanding of the biological and chemical processes that allow life to thrive, giving us the tools we need to solve key challenges in cell biology, pathology, pharmacology, physiology, and genetics. Advances in the field have revolutionised our knowledge of how biochemistry works and the mechanisms that underpin a wide range of cellular processes. This enables us to respond to human health problems and diseases by rationally designing new strategies and drugs as treatments.
s expertise in pharmacology, biomedical science, biology, and biotechnology. Students have the opportunity to develop skills in practical laboratory techniques, data interpretation, critical analysis, computational skills allied to biochemistry, and scientific writing.", 'Why Choose Lincoln
97% satisfaction with teaching*
A range of optional modules to choose from
Optional placement year
Taught by experienced research-active staff
Optional overseas field trip
*National Student Survey 2022
How You Study
This programme introduces students to a range of topics, enabling them to widen their knowledge of biochemistry across a range of allied subjects. These include molecular biology, immunology, pharmacology, and biotechnology. The degree offers optional modules to allow students greater choice in their academic studies. Modules have been developed to cover topics relevant to current or developing fields allied to the life sciences.
During the first year, students can study a breadth of core topics, including biochemistry, physiology, genetics, and cell biology.
The second year allows students to add specialism to their degree. Students can study molecular biology, applications of biochemistry in clinical situations, and detailed analysis of biomolecules and enzymology. Optional topics include pharmacology, immunology, and human disease.
In the final year, students undertake an individual research project which provides the chance to develop investigation skills, in addition to studying key themes such as biotechnology, microbial biochemistry, protein structure and function, and clinical biochemistry.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Overseas Field Trip
There is an optional overseas field trip in the third year. This will provide the opportunity to do research in a novel environment and to study local plants and animals. Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, andMolise in Italy.
Optional field trips may incur additional costs, including flights. Students may also be required to pay for overnight stays, local travel, and food close to the destination if their flights arrive the day before the team are scheduled to meet.Students may bring personal items of clothing and travel equipment, some of which may be specialised for the environment they are travelling to, and recommended medicines and travel toiletries such as anti-malaria medication, vaccinations, insect repellent and sunscreen. These costs will depend on what you choose to bring.
Students on this programme are able to undertake an optional overseas field trip as part of their third year, enabling them to study animals and plants in the wild.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Molise in Italy.
On each trip students are introduced to local flora and fauna, present a group project, and complete an identification test of plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates.
Optional Placement Year
All full-time students on this course may take an optional placement year between the second and third year of the programme. While these placements are student-led, you will be continuously supported by academic staff throughout. Placements provide the opportunity to gain workplace experience and a chance to hone your skills in a professional environment.While you are on an optional placement in the UK, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and meals costs.
Informed by Research
Biochemistry-related research at Lincoln includes structural and molecular biology, DNA metabolism and drug discovery. Final-year student research projects have previously included overcoming drug resistance, proteins involved in neurodegeneration, and new proteins for biofuel production.
The lecturers made the content easy to understand and interesting, while the practical sessions were a fantastic opportunity to see the theory learned in lectures applied in a real-life situation.
Laura Rutledge
BSc (Hons) Biochemistry
What Can I Do with a Biochemistry Degree?
Career paths for Biochemistry graduate exist in industrial, commercial, and academic research, and in development roles within the medical, food, pharmaceutical, and biotechnology industries. Graduates also go on to careers in scientific marketing and journalism, or education.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit, or equivalent.
*not all modules are accepted. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk). 
BTEC Diploma Applied Science acceptable with other qualifications. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
T Level in Science accepted.  Health or Health Science are not accepted: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages:
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/lifesciences/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit,.(*not all modules are accepted). 
T Level in Science accepted: Merit(Health or Health Science are not accepted)
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology or Chemistry.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Chemistry
BSc (Hons) Chemistry for Net Zero
BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Education
BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Mathematics
BSc (Hons) Forensic Chemistry
BSc Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development
MBio Biochemistry
MChem Chemistry
MChem Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development
MChem Chemistry for Net Zero
MChem Chemistry with Education
MChem Chemistry with Mathematics
MChem Forensic Chemistry
