Biomedical Science
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years if taken with the optional sandwich year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
B940
Academic Years
Biomedical scientists play a key role in improving human health. By exploring life processes in humans they lay the foundations for understanding and investigating health, disease, treatment, and prevention.
Biomedical Science at Lincoln offers a broad scientific base, taking a multi-disciplinary approach that incorporates lectures, seminars, and laboratory-based work. The course emphasises the development of transferable skills in information retrieval, data analysis, problem solving, and critical thinking, as well as hands-on experience.
 experience in an NHS laboratory and gaining HCPC registration are all essential steps to becoming a qualified biomedical scientist.", 'Our teaching team includes specialist staff from local and regional hospitals, research scientists, and pharmaceutical industry experts. Their areas of speciality currently cover diabetes, inflammation, cancer, and neurodegenerative and cardiovascular disease.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject area ranked in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction*
Accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science
Optional placement year
Taught by experienced research-active staff
Optional overseas field trip
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 96 ranking institutions)
How You Study
The first year introduces the fundamentals of biomedical science, including human anatomy and physiology, genetics, and disease. It enables students to begin to develop some of the skills that are vital for a practising scientist.
Students can take their knowledge further in the second year, studying pharmacology, immunology, and molecular biology, while receiving an introduction to biomedical diagnosis and its application in the study and treatment of disease.
In their final year, students can explore topics such as cancer, transfusion, and disease pathology. They are also required to complete an individual research project.
This course is delivered through lectures, practical classes, workshops, seminars, and tutorials. The course will also include inter-professional education and problem-based learning using case studies. Students undertake a series of hands-on practical sessions focusing on a wide range of different techniques, including many that use the same equipment and techniques that are currently employed within the NHS, industry, and research laboratories to investigate disease and diagnose patients.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Students on this course may be assessed through written assignments, unseen examinations, practical assessments, presentations, online assessments, reports, and dissertations. Typically the course is 50% coursework and 50% exam, but some modules are coursework only.
Accreditation
This degree is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science, the professional body for those who work within the field of biomedical science. IBMS accreditation ensures that the course meets the academic requirements for registration as a biomedical scientist with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC). In order to register as a biomedical scientist, you would need additionally to complete the IBMS registration portfolio in an approved laboratory.
Overseas Field Trip
There is an optional overseas field trip in the third year. This will provide the opportunity to do research in a novel environment and to study local plants and animals. Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, andMolise in Italy.
Optional field trips may incur additional costs, including flights. Students may also be required to pay for overnight stays, local travel, and food close to the destination if their flights arrive the day before the team are scheduled to meet.Students may bring personal items of clothing and travel equipment, some of which may be specialised for the environment they are travelling to, and recommended medicines and travel toiletries such as anti-malaria medication, vaccinations, insect repellent and sunscreen. These costs will depend on what you choose to bring.
Students on this course can take part in an optional overseas field trip in the third year to study local plants and animals in the wild.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Molise in Italy.
On each trip students are introduced to local flora and fauna, present a group project, and complete an identification test of plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates.
Optional Placement Year
All full-time students on this course may take an optional placement year between the second and third year of the programme. While these placements are student-led, you will be continuously supported by academic staff throughout. Placements provide the opportunity to gain workplace experience and a chance to hone your skills in a professional environment.While you are on an optional placement in the UK, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and meals costs.
I thoroughly enjoyed my Biomedical Science degree at the University of Lincoln. I was supported through every stage of the three years, with a wide range of staff available for academic, personal, and career-focused help and advice.
Beth Williams
BSc (Hons) Biomedical Science
What Can I Do with a Biomedical Science Degree?
This degree is accredited by the Institute of Biomedical Science. It aims to prepare graduates to work as qualified biomedical scientists on successful completion of a portfolio of competencies after gaining six to 12 months experience in a laboratory. Graduates also go on to a wide range of other careers across medicine, the pharmaceutical industry, research laboratories, universities, public health, and the NHS.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
*not all modules are accepted. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
BTEC Diploma Applied Science acceptable with other qualifications. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
T Level in Science accepted.  Health or Health Science are not accepted: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Chemistry.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths, and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/lifesciences/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent to include 40 points from Biology or Chemistry.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.(*not all modules are accepted). 
T Level in Science accepted: Merit. (Health or Health Science are not accepted)
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level in Biology or Chemistry.
s:   Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths, and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Biology
Biology - MBio 
BEng (Hons) Biomedical Engineering
MBio Biomedical Science
BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Science
MBio Bioveterinary Science
BMBS Medicine
BSc (Hons) Biochemistry
MBio Biochemistry
