BRCGS Internal Auditing
 | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Programme Type
Short Course
Delivery
Two-day Course
Cost
700
Next Start Date
June 2024
Our June 2024 course is now fully booked. Please email us if you would like to be added to our waiting list.
This course aims to train delegates in Internal Auditor requirements against the new Global Standard for Food Safety Issue 9. This course is aimed at quality and technical managers, personnel responsible for managing an internal auditing schedule, and personnel responsible for undertaking internal audits as required by BRCGS standards. The course covers topics including audit processes, auditing overview, auditing concepts, audit planning, auditor attributes, conducting the audit, and reporting the audit.
Key Features
Aligned to requirements for the Global Standard for Food Safety Issue 9
On-site delivery at the National Centre for Food Manufacturing
Can be delivered on business premises
Regular start dates each year
Course Dates
How You Study
This two-day course is delivered on-site at the National Centre for Food Manufacturing in Holbeach and can also be delivered on business premises. 
The course is delivered through a mixture of workshop-led discussions, practical activities, and presentations. On day two, delegates are required to undertake a live audit (case-study based) where they are expected to apply the skills and techniques acquired on day one. Delegates will be given feedback on how they performed during the case study and how they can improve their techniques. 
An understanding and working knowledge of quality management systems within the relevant manufacturing/processing environment would be a distinct advantage, but is not essential.
How you are assessed
Assessment of delegates takes place throughout the course. Delegates will also undertake a work place audit and submit an audit report for assessment.
Funding
*This programme can be partly funded as part of our Skills Boot Camp in Food Safety and Compliance. Please contact NCFM for more details before making a payment if you would like to consider other funding options.
Explore Flexible Learning
From short courses and microcredentials, to professional development modules and fully online Masters degrees, we offer a range of flexible programmes to suit your individual needs. Our suite of programmes uses a variety of delivery methods, including online-only, face-to-face, blended, and distance-learning approaches.
