Best Interests Assessor
 | PG Credit | University of Lincoln

Course Menu

Key Information
Programme Type
Short Course
Delivery
In person
Award
PG Credit
Cost
750
Next Start Date
April 2024
This course gives students the opportunity to attain the qualification required to carry out the duties of Best Interests Assessors, as required by the Deprivation of Liberty Safeguards (DOLS) regulations. It is open to professionals from social work, nursing, occupational therapy, and psychology who have at least two years post-qualifying experience.
On completion of this module students are expected to be able to:
- Demonstrate the critical ability to keep appropriate records and to provide clear and reasoned report in accordance with legal requirements and good practice- Demonstrate the professional knowledge and skills necessary to obtain, evaluate, and analyse complex evidence and differing views and to weigh them appropriately in decision making- Critically apply knowledge of relevant legislation and codes of practice (including the Mental Health and Mental Capacity acts and the DOLS regulations).
Key Features

Opportunities for shadowing

Multiple start dates through the year

Delivered by experienced healthcare professionals

Designed for practitioners 
Entry Requirements
For this module there is a minimum post-qualification experience requirement of two years.
How You Study
This course uses a blend of classroom based sessions such as lectures from experts, class discussions, and small group work on relevant case studies. Alongside these, there are some practice based activities. 
There will also be opportunities to shadow a  Best Interest Assessor for a minimum of one case.
How you are assessed
Assessment on this course is comprised of two elements:
- A 45 minute unseen multiple choice exam, worth 25 per cent of the overall module marks- A written portfolio, equivalent to 3,000 words, comprised of a detailed case study involving a best interests assessment scenario (60 per cent) and a critical reflective piece (40 per cent), which makes up the remaining 75 per cent of the overall module marks
To pass students must achieve a minimum of 50 per cent in each assessment element.
Explore Flexible Learning
From short courses and microcredentials, to professional development modules and fully online Masters degrees, we offer a range of flexible programmes to suit your individual needs. Our suite of programmes uses a variety of delivery methods, including online-only, face-to-face, blended, and distance-learning approaches.


