Pre-Master's Business
 | Graduate Certificate | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
1 term (12 weeks)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Academic Year
s programme offers a route of progression on to a range of postgraduate programmes within Lincoln International Business School. The programme is designed to provide preparation for Master's study for those who don't meet our usual entry requirements. ", "Students will study core modules which focus on contemporary issues in management, strategy, and other business related topics, giving them a grounding needed to progress to their chosen Master's. In addition, they will also take a module in English for Academic Purposes.", 'Degree Programme Progression
This programme lasts for one term (around 12 weeks).
s programme and obtaining the required grade, students may have the option to progress onto one of the following Masters programmes at the University of Lincoln starting in January 2025*:", 'MSc Accounting and FinanceMSc International BusinessMSc Supply Chain and Logistics ManagementMSc Management MSc Management with Human Resources MSc Management with Project Management MSc MarketingMSc Project Management*list based on January 2024 entry and subject to change.
How You Study
s programme, students study four 15-credit core modules, including one dedicated to English for Academic Purposes, delivered by the International College.", 'Students will have opportunities to join with the wider Lincoln International Business School community from the onset, studying academic modules alongside other students, while retaining the support of the International college and separate English Language provision. 
Students will also be encouraged to engage with the informal curriculum and co-curricular activities associated with the LIBS community and the wider university, for example careers.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
How you are assessed
The range of assessment formats used on the programme may include written examinations, in-class tests,  online tests, oral assessment and presentations, and written reports.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
This programme is available to International students. Students must hold recognised undergraduate degree (Other qualifications will be considered). Applicants must be aged 18+.
Before you apply, it is important that you carefully check the academic, English language, and age requirements you will need to meet.  Full entry requirements can be found at:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/entryrequirements
This page contains information regarding the general requirements you must meet before starting your studies as well as country-specific ones.
Please note that applications for our International Foundation Year and International Year One degree preparation programmes will remain open until further notice.
Course Fees
Students on this course may be eligible for a range of scholarships and bursaries once they successfully progress on to their chosen full degree programme.


