International Business
 | MSc | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
1 year
Part-time
2 years
Start Date
September 2024
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Academic Year
Knowledge across a range of disciplines is required by students looking to understand business operations in an international context, and this course aims to help students develop the necessary knowledge and qualities to compete effectively in both the domestic and international labour markets. 
You are able to gain a firm grounding in the theories and practice of international business, enabling you to contribute to the performance of various kinds of organisations all over the world.
The programme offers a high level of support for international students. This includes support in English language, orientation to studying in the UK, postgraduate study skills, the development of enterprising and employable career capabilities, and pastoral support. Close engagement with the International Office, English Language Centre, Student Services, Careers and Employability Team, library, and other central services are essential aspects of this support. 
Business graduates may use this programme to examine the subject area in more depth, while those from other backgrounds can combine their existing knowledge and skills with international business theory.
Why Choose Lincoln

Explore theories and practice of international business 

Develop key postgraduate study skills

Hear from expert industry speakers

Complete a dissertation in a specialist area

High level of support for international students
How You Study
Students on this programme are expected to read extensively and stay aware of current theoretical debates within the literature, including relevant journals. 
Lectures are used primarily in discipline-bound areas. Lecture materials may be enhanced by audio-visual material in the early stages of the course to provide additional aid to overseas students facing an unfamiliar learning environment. Classes are supplemented with discussion and debate on the rapid and often spontaneous changes in international business. Seminars are also a feature of the course. 
MSc International Business students are expected to study nine core modules which are designed to develop understanding of international business, communication skills, and other essential graduate attributes.  The degree concludes with a dissertation which is designed to encourage innovation and diverse pathways to the final assessed product. In this respect, the dissertation is an extended project that can accommodate a range of independent work. 
Each module typically consists of two weekly teaching hours over a teaching term. Students will normally study four modules per term and therefore eight per week. Part-time students will usually study two modules per term, equating to four hours per week. Hours of study may vary from term to term for both full and part-time students and can be spread throughout the week. 
Postgraduate level study involves a significant proportion of independent study exploring the material covered in lectures and seminars. As a general guide, for every hour spent in class, students are expected to spend at least four to five hours in independent study.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
A variety of assessment methods are used during this course including essays, reports, presentations, and group work. These assessments are designed to develop the skills needed in industry.
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days of the submission date.", 'Industry Expertise
Lincoln International Business School has an experienced team of staff, which is made up of academically and professionally qualified lecturers with relevant industrial experience and finance experts with wide research interests. The School hosts a series of visiting speakers each year. As part of the School, students will have the opportunity to learn from industry experts. Previous speakers have included representatives from organisations such as Deloitte, Santander, HSBC, Innocent, The Institute of Internal Auditors and Sir David Tweedie (ex-Chairman of the IASB).
How to Apply
Postgraduate Application Support
ll need to complete on our How to Apply page. Here, you'll also be able to find out more about the entry requirements we accept and how to contact us for dedicated support during the process.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
A second class honours degree or equivalent.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages  https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-session English and Academic Study Skills courses. https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/ . These specialist courses are designed to help students meet the English language requirements for their intended programme of study.
Course Fees
You will need to have funding in place for your studies before you arrive at the University. Our fees vary depending on the course, mode of study, and whether you are a UK or international student. You can view the breakdown of fees for this programme below.
The University offers a range of merit-based, subject-specific, and country-focused scholarships for UK and international students. To help support students from outside of the UK, we offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Funding Your Study
Postgraduate Funding Options
s Loans to scholarship opportunities. You can also find out more about how to pay your fees and access support from our helpful advisors.", 'Career Development
Postgraduate study is an investment in yourself and your future. It can help you to further or completely change your career, develop your knowledge, enhance your salary, or even prepare you to start your own business. Postgraduate students at the University of Lincoln benet from inspirational teaching combined with high-quality facilities and learning spaces, great industry links, and unique research opportunities, all of which are designed to help you stand out from the crowd and make the most of your time with us.
Why Postgraduate Study?
Academic Contact
For more information about this course, please contact the Programme Leader.
Dr Suhaer Yunussyunus@lincoln.ac.uk
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Postgraduate Events
To get a real feel for what it is like to study at the University of Lincoln, we hold a number of dedicated postgraduate events and activities throughout the year for you to take part in.
Postgraduate Events
Find out more about how postgraduate study can help further your career, develop your knowledge, or even prepare you to start your own business at one of our postgraduate events.


