Business
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 or 4 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
N100
Academic Years
Graduates with a broad knowledge base in finance, marketing, human resources, operations, management, and economics are well-placed to embrace opportunities in a range of exciting business contexts. 
Our BA (Hons) Business combines elements of all of these disciplines. It offers students the opportunity to develop the critical-thinking, problem-solving, and analytical skills needed to enter the competitive world of business.
The course takes an international perspective to help prepare students for the global nature of modern business practice, offering the opportunity to specialise in areas of particular interest and acquire workplace experience.
Students have opportunities to complete a one-year work placement or international year abroad which will be reflected in their award title - BA (Hons) Business (with Professional Practice), or BA (Hons) Business (International Study Year). Those who choose not to complete a placement or year abroad will receive a BA (Hons) Business award, or equivalent exit award.
Students have opportunities to complete a one-year work placement or international year abroad which will be reflected in their award title  as BA (Hons) Business (with Professional Practice), or BA (Hons) Business (International Study Year) respectively. Those who choose not to complete a placement or year abroad will receive a BA (Hons) Business award, or equivalent exit award.
Why Choose Lincoln
Hands-on experience during a professional practice year
Undertake real-life, industry-related projects
How You Study
s learning activities are aimed at developing your creativity, critical thinking, complex problem solving, and entrepreneurial thinking, alongside developing your understanding of principles and practices of business and management. ", 'The first year introduces key elements of business, including economics, finance, marketing, business analytics, creativity and entrepreneurship, and organisational behaviour. The second year builds on this foundation with modules designed to develop professional skills in operations management, consumer behaviour, human resources management, and innovation. 
In the final year, modules are designed to enable you to practice and develop confidence in creative problem solving, enterprise, and entrepreneurship, to provide you with the mindset, knowledge, and skills that allow for success in innovation driven organisations. In addition, you can choose from a range of modules to take your business knowledge further and  develop a career specialism by choosing the subject areas aligned to your personal interests.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Business Studies is a diverse course where you are able to have a taste of everything, allowing you to tailor you learning to any business career.
 Tamika Gayle
BA (Hons) Business Studies
How you are assessed
The degree uses a range of assessment types which can assess individual performance and group performance to reflect the variety of learning styles in students. Assessments can include coursework such as assignments, projects, essays, reports, portfolios, and reflective logs, as well as practical work including presentations, exhibitions, role play, and oral assessments. Exams can include in-class tests or written exams. 
s work to support learning throughout the course. Quality feedback is integral to the course's teaching and learning strategy. Feedback is available electronically. Students have access to one-to-one meetings to receive personalised feedback about their performance.", 'How you are assessed
s work to support learning throughout the course. Quality feedback is integral to the course's teaching and learning strategy. Feedback is available electronically. Students have access to one-to-one meetings to receive personalised feedback about their performance.", 'Accreditation
The course is accredited by the Chartered Management Institute (CMI). Students completing the degree can achieve a Level 5 Diploma in Management and Leadership from the CMI. As Affiliate Members of the CMI, you have access to CMIs business mentoring scheme, career development centre, and professional learning resources to help develop professional expertise and to build relationships with industry throughout your degree.
Professional PracticeYear
t have to pay tuition fees for this year, but will need to cover your travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", 'Studentswho complete the one-yearprofessional practice placement willbe awarded aBA (Hons) Business (with Professional Practice). Those who choose not to complete a placement will receive a BA (Hons) Business, or equivalent exit award.
International Study Year
t have to paytuition fees for that year but will be required to cover your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.", '
Take the Business Challenge
What Can I Do with aBusiness Degree?
A degree in Business can prepare students for a career working in e-commerce, financial management, retail management, human resources, manufacturing, project management, consultancy, and marketing, among other sectors. Lincoln graduates have gone on to work for organisations including IBM, Rolls-Royce, Jaguar Land Rover, Siemens, and Anglian Water.
This is a diverse course, where you are able to have a taste of everything, allowing you to tailor your learning to any business career.
Tamika Gayle
BA (Hons) Business
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 (C) or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
International students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
The University of Lincoln's International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln. Please visit https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/ for more information.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent level 3 qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac....andacademicstudyskills/
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Business and Management
BA (Hons) Business and Marketing
BA (Hons) Business Economics
BA (Hons) Business Management
BA (Hons) Business with Entrepreneurship
BA (Hons) International Business Management
BA (Hons) Sports Business Management
BA (Hons) Business and Finance
