Games Computing with Virtual and Augmented Reality
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
G406
Academic Years
Our BSc (Hons) Games Computing with Virtual and Augmented Reality programme is designed for students wishing to combine their study of Games Computing with a focus on the game technologies of the future. The programme aims to  prepare students to contribute to the growing development and interest in extended reality, with a focus on interaction, immersiveness, and entertainment.  By combining core computer science and game development skills with an additional focus on extended reality, the course aims to create developers who are equipped to address the increasing demand for extended reality as a platform for game technologies.
The course also aims to develop a skillset that is applicable to the wider spectrum of the digital sector. Beyond learning how to develop software, students can also develop an understanding of the interaction between the computer and its user, and how to design an engaging experience.
Why Choose Lincoln
Focus on cutting-edge topics
Access to a range of specialist equipment
A range of specialist optional modules
Take part in games workshops and game jams
Optional placement year
Undertake individual projects on a topics of interest
How You Study
In the first year, students have the opportunity to study the fundamental areas of computer science and games development. This includes programming fundamentals, maths for computing, and games development.
In the second year, there is in-depth study expected in areas of games computing, such as advanced programming, concept development, user experience design, and artificial intelligence, alongside a focus on game development for virtual and augmented reality.
As well as completing a games development project in the third year, students can choose from a range of specialist optional modules, including Physics Simulation,  Parallel Programming; Autonomous Mobile Robotics; Image Processing; and Cross-Platform Development.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The programme is assessed through a variety of means, including in-class tests, coursework, projects, and examinations. The majority of assessments are coursework-based, reflecting the practical and applied nature of games computing science. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Special Features
Students have the opportunity to be part of a vibrant community of active researchers and take part in extracurricular activities such as performance and games workshops, game jams, and national competitions. Students also have access to a specialist development laboratory, industry-standard software development environments, 3D modelling software and virtual reality systems. Software development environments such as Unreal Engine 4, Unity Pro, and Visual Studio play a major part in the practical elements of the course.
Placements
There is the opportunity to take a work placement year between the second and third years of study. Students are academically supported throughout their placement, which can be overseas. There may also be opportunities to take shorter work placements and overseas study visits. Students on the placement year and on study visits are required to pay for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs. There is no tuition fee for the placement year.
What Can I Do with a Games Computing Degree?
Our Games Computing programmesaim to equip graduates with the skills necessary for a technical career. Graduates can work across the games industry as developers, tools programmers, artificial intelligence programmers, level designers, mission scripters, games testers, and in many other roles in the wider IT industry. Lincoln graduates have gone on to work for computer games industry giants and other specialist companies in the sector. These include Electronic Arts (EA Games), Criterion Games, Rockstar Games, Sumo Digital, BAE Systems, and Team 17.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
International students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
s International College also offers university preparation courses for international students who do not meet the direct entry requirements. Upon successful completion, students can progress to Bachelor's study at the University of Lincoln.", 'https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/internationalcollege/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Computer Science 
BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Artificial Intelligence
BSc (Hons) Games Computing
BSc (Hons) Robotics
MComp Computer Science
MComp Games Computing
