Chemistry with Mathematics
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
F1G1
Academic Years
Knowledge of advanced mathematics provides a key to understanding the diversity and complexity of the chemical world. This joint honours degree integrates these fundamental subjects, providing students with the chance to examine the relationship between the disciplines and the important roles they play in different contexts.
The chemistry curriculum on this programme has been devised to integrate the main sub-disciplines of chemistry effectively, relating physical chemistry concepts to aspects of organic and inorganic chemistry, and to the methods used for analysing substances. The programme provides the opportunity to gain a comprehensive knowledge of chemistry alongside subject-specific and generic skills with the aim of developing a strong understanding of how chemistry is applied to problems with direct impact on society.
Chemistry at Lincoln is designed to produce employable graduates with a broad background in academic chemistry and significant experience of the application of chemistry in contexts relevant to society and industry.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked 3rd in the UK for student satisfaction*
Small group teaching and innovative team-based learning
Work placement opportunities
Industry challenges set through partnerships with multinational organisations
Focus on professional practice to improve career prospects
Opportunities to engage with staff on research projects 
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 53 ranking institutions).
How You Study
The course covers core chemistry subjects, which can include synthetic methodologies and molecular characterisation; laboratory techniques; molecular structure, bonding and mechanism; and electronic structure, spectroscopy, and reactivity in p-block compounds.
Throughout the programme, students may have opportunities to engage with industry professionals to develop professional practice that can enhance employability. Challenges based on industry-led, interdisciplinary projects are undertaken throughout the course with national and multi-national companies.
In mathematics, students are given the opportunity to gain knowledge in a variety of subjects including programming, computation and data analysis. Students are also encouraged to develop transferable skills in areas such as communications, problem-solving, and decision-making throughout their studies.
The course includes lectures, seminars, laboratory-based practical classes, and lectures from visiting scientists. Extensive small-group teaching and innovative team-based learning aims to create a supportive learning environment to help students train through practice and problem-based approaches.
In mathematics, students are given the opportunity to gain knowledge in a variety of subjects including programming, computation, and data analysis. Students are also encouraged to develop transferable skills in areas such as communications, problem-solving, and decision-making throughout their studies.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances, or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Skills Development and Professional Practice
Our Chemistry courses have an embedded explicit skills development programme through the professional practice modules. The programme delivers a systematic programme in skills development, which includes CV writing and interview skills. The modules exemplify the application of chemistry into key employment sectors and present chemistry through an integrated approach.
Industry Challenges
A series of themed industry challenges are co-delivered during the professional practice modules through industry partnerships with multi-national and SME organisations representing the analytical, formulation, pharmaceutical, and energy and environmental sectors.
After systematic project planning and management training, students can devise and present technical proposals in response to the challenge. After consultation and feedback from a joint academic and industry panel, students can execute project plans and report within industry standard methods. The professional practice modules aim to prepare students for placements and future employment.
Placements
Students may have the opportunity to undertake placements during their degree. When students are on an optional placement in the UK or overseas or studying abroad, they will be required to cover their own transport and accommodation and meals costs.
Placements can range from a few weeks to a full year if students choose to undertake an optional sandwich year in industry (where available). Students are encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently. Tutors may provide support and advice to students who require it during this process.
What Can I Do with a Chemistry with Mathematics Degree?
Chemistry graduates may pursue a wide range of science-related careers in sectors including energy, petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, and consumer and personal care products. This course aims to equip graduates with extensive analytical and mathematical skills which are relevant to roles in finance, management, science-based marketing and journalism, education, and academic research. Some graduates may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points in Maths.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Chemistry or Maths.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
*not all modules are accepted. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications. 
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent to include 40 points in Maths.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.(*dependent on modules studied. Please contact our Admissions team for further information admissions@lincoln.ac.uk)
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Maths.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Chemistry
BSc (Hons) Chemistry for Net Zero
BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Education
BSc (Hons) Forensic Chemistry
BSc Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development
MChem Chemistry
MChem Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development
MChem Chemistry with Education
MChem Chemistry with Mathematics
MChem Forensic Chemistry
