Photography
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years with Foundation Year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
W600
Academic Years
Photography is a career that could take you in many directions - from the commercial to the artistic to the academic - with each path looking for photographers with a unique way of interpreting our communities and environment. 
ll learn the core practical skills and techniques you need to produce professional-standard photography, from developing your ideas and understanding your audience, to solving creative problems through collaboration and individual practice. Working with our industry-standard equipment and facilities, you'll be given a choice of pathway including still, moving, digital, and analogue images, creating projects built around themes like identity, place, documentary, and fictions. You'll also get the opportunity to work with professional clients on live briefs and enter international photography competitions.", 'This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry onto the full degree programme. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/.
Why Choose Lincoln
Links with industry and workshops with visiting experts 
Specialist photography studios and equipment 
Take part in international student photography competitions 
Professional briefs from brands and organisations 
Opportunities to self publish your work 
Professional network of alumni 
How You Study
Photography at Lincoln is taught by award-winning industry practitioners and research-active academics. Programme Leader Graeme Oxby was Format Photography Festival Photo Show 2019 award winner and an exhibitor at the Indian Photo Festival presented by National Geographic 2019. Tom Martin was Taylor Wessing Portrait Prize finalist in 2011 and In Conflict - Visible White Photo Prize finalist in 2017.
re creating. ", 'In each year, modules cover methods and materials, critical theory, and professional practice. Modules can include Contemporary Photographic Practices; Dynamic Visual Forms; Becoming an Effective Researcher; Extended Practice; and Critical Research Project.
The first year offers an introduction to methods of producing and distributing photography, as well as a critical understanding of lens-based media and technologies within contemporary contexts. 
During the second year, students can develop and refine their approach selecting assignments that reflect their interests. In the second year module Photography and Collaboration, students work on live photography briefs issued by partner companies and institutions.  
In the final year, students are expected to produce a major body of work in their chosen area, demonstrating a thorough understanding of the medium, and produce a final exhibition of work.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment is 100% coursework. The programme is assessed on the basis of coursework which comprises project work and written submissions, and consists of both formative and summative assessment. 
Formative feedback guides students on the process of work and takes the form of group and individual discussion. Tutor feedback provides students with guidance on their performance during each module. 
Summative assessment occurs at the end of each module. Student work is assessed against clearly defined criteria and learning outcomes. A summative mark is awarded based upon evidence that all criteria have been complied with and all aims and learning outcomes for the assignment have been achieved. 
The University of Lincolns policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.
Assessment is 100 per cent coursework. The programme is assessed on the basis of coursework which comprises project work and written submissions, and consists of both formative and summative assessment. 
Specialist Facilities
Students on this course have access to a range of specialist facilities and equipment. We have a fully equipped photographic studio with hi-glide lighting track and wireless controlled flash units. We have a film processing area and darkroom with enlargers for 35mm, medium, and large format printing. Students have access to a dedicated print finishing space which houses our Epson and Hasselblad film scanners as well as a large format Canon photo printer. Studentsare able toaccess a number of specialist Apple computer labs and each student currently has free access to the Adobe Creative Suite (Including Photoshop, Lightroom, and Premiere Pro) for the duration of their studies.
Students can benefit from the School's expertise and facilities in sound design and digital film production. They currently have access to Adobe Creative Cloud suite software for the duration of their studies via the media and design labs. Explore our facilities here.
Explore Our Facilities
s course and to further my career in the creative industries.", 'Matthew Snellin
BA (Hons) Photography
What Can I Do with a PhotographyDegree?
s work has been featured in Loupe Magazine and The Royal Photographic Society magazine. She is currently working in the photography studio at Liberty London.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Film and Television Studies
BA (Hons) Film Production
BA (Hons) Media Production
BA (Hons) Media Studies
