Criminology
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Part-time
6 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
M931
Academic Year
Criminologists use theory to explore some of the most contentious issues in contemporary society, working to understand the causes of crime and the way in which criminal justice agencies respond to offenders.
Criminological theory forms a key part of this course, enabling students to develop the critical tools needed to understand and explain relevant issues concerning crime, criminality, harm, criminalisation, and criminal justice in contemporary society.
Teaching is research-informed and draws upon many aspects of the social sciences. Staff specialisms include research in the areas of prisons and policing, drugs markets and recovery programmes, the sex industry, youth violence and justice, counter-terrorism policy, environmental harm, and gender-based violence. 
Academics regularly contribute to national policy debates and encourage students to engage with key issues in the study of crime and criminal justice. Lecturers work closely with local criminal justice agencies and professionals, representatives of which visit the University to give guest lectures and collaborate with staff and students on projects.
Why Choose Lincoln

Options to study abroad for a year

Undertake voluntary placements in local councils

Conduct research alongside our expert academic team

Choose from a range of optional modules

How You Study
The first year aims to provide a thorough grounding in criminology and the wider social sciences in order to develop the knowledge and research skills necessary for further study. As the course progresses, students are able to delve deeper into topics such as criminological theory to explore the potential causes of crime and the way these shape, and are shaped by, criminal justice responses.
Final-year students can explore complex questions about the image and reality of human rights, and the problems and possibilities of differentapproaches to punishment. Optional modules in the second and third years enable students to tailor their studies to their career aspirations or areas of particular interest, such as policing.
Criminology at Lincoln is organised and taught by a team of Criminologists who have extensive qualifications, research, and publication experience. Students are given the opportunity to meet with tutors for individual tutorial sessions to explore in greater detail their own individual learning needs. As well as directed study, you are expected to undertake independent learning utilising traditional library resources, as well as a wide range of electronic resources.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Optional Pathways
To reflect the diverse ambitions of our students, and the variety of careers studying criminology can lead to, we have created specialist pathways within the course. By choosing specific modules, you can create a qualification suited to your dream career.
Alongside a more focused curriculum, these pathways allow you benefit from targeted advice from our Careers and Employability Team, or support from our Global Opportunities Team. Following a pathway will change the name of your degree to either BA (Hons) Criminology (Criminal Justice) or BA (Hons) Criminology (Global Justice and Security).
BA (Hons) Criminology (Criminal Justice)
This pathway allows you to focus on criminal justice practice and professional skills development. You can gain useful experience by focusing on exciting real-world projects or work experience within a local organisation, and enhance your employability through tailored careers support and guidance.
BA (Hons) Criminology (Global Justice and Security)
Take a global approach to your studies by tackling topics relevant to the international community, including environmental harm, cybercrime, transnational organised crime and security, terrorism and extremism, human rights, and war crimes. There may also be chances to learn online alongside students from the USA.
Public Lecture: Why We Love True Crime
s an example of just one of the exciting and relevant public lectures available on the course. Colton Scrivner, Behavioural Scientist in the Department of Psychology at Arizona State University, explains why we love True Crime.", '
How you are assessed
live' projects, oral examinations, and conferences.", "These methods are designed to make a significant contribution to the consolidation of important transferable skills, which are valued by employers across a ranger of sectors. The University of Lincoln's policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'This course opened me up to a whole range of criminological theories that meant when I was doing the assessments I was expanding how I understood those topics in our current landscape, but also what could be done in the future.
George Keyse
BA (Hons) Criminology
Placements
ll have an opportunity to apply for our voluntary, competitive work placements scheme, currently run with a local council. This scheme aims to offer valuable experience of a professional policy environment and observe how policy is set by central government and executed by local authorities, such as how competing priorities can result in decisions made on allocating resources. Please note, this opportunity is subject to the councils ongoing commitment to the scheme, and students are responsible for the costs associated with placements including travel, accommodation, and general living expenses.", 'Study Abroad Year
t need to pay a tuition fee to either the University of Lincoln or the host university, but will be responsible for covering travel, accommodation, and living costs and where applicable, visa costs.", 'The Great Central Warehouse Library
At the heart of student life is our library which will provide you with access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
Learning Lounges
You can take advantage of our range of modern study areas located across campus, which include learning lounges that give you the opportunity to study alone or with your friends and course mates.
Computer Suites
A range of computer suites is available in buildings across our Brayford Pool Campus. 
What Can I Do with a Criminology Degree?
Graduates have gone on to positionsin a a diverse range of areas, including roles in the probation and prison services, health and social services, police authorities, youth work, victim support, government policy, and education. Some students progress to further study at Masters and doctoral level.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit, or equivalent
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages.
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Criminology

BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology

BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology 

BA (Hons) Social Policy

BA (Hons) Sociology

LLB (Hons) Law

LLB (Hons) Law and Criminology



