Criminology and Sociology
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Part-time
6 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
LM39
Academic Year
Criminologists use theory to explore some of the most contentious issues in contemporary society, working to understand the causes of crime and the way in which criminal justice agencies respond to offenders.
Criminology and Sociology at Lincoln aims to give students the skills needed to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of social, cultural, and political responses to crime and deviance. Students are asked to apply their knowledge to real-life issues, and have an opportunity to analyse the different social constructions of everyday life in order to better understand the diverse groups and structures that make up modern society.
Why Choose Lincoln
Options to study abroad for a year
Undertake voluntary placements in local councils
Conduct research alongside our expert academic team
Choose from optional modules to suite your preferences
How You Study
The course enables you to advance your discipline-specific knowledge, and  provides the opportunity to develop a range of cognitive, practical, and transferable skills that may be relevant to further academic study and employment.
Academic staff undertake research in a broad range of areas. They work closely with local criminal justice agencies and professionals, such as the police and youth offending services, to enable students to access and learn from real-world knowledge and practices. Students are encouraged to build links with employers and develop skills in analytics, problem-solving, research methods, team-working, and public speaking.
ll be able to shape your learning around your own interests and career aspirations by choosing from a range of optional modules influenced not only by sociology and criminology, but also social policy and politics. In the third year, you can go on to consider punishment theory and practice alongside the mechanisms of social policy making. You may also choose to specialise in diverse optional topics drawn from across the School, including the study of policing, work, human rights, genocide, and civil society.", 'The course aims to combine aspects of both directed and independent learning. Each module is usually delivered by means of a weekly lecture and seminar. Seminars are a space for you and other students to discuss and debate the issues raised in the lecture and engage in critical reflection on set readings relating to such issues. Further methods of delivery include visits from practitioners and guest speakers, collaborative workshops, and IT sessions.
You will also have the opportunity to meet with tutors for individual tutorial sessions to explore in greater detail your own individual learning needs. As well as this directed study, you are expected to undertake independent learning utilising traditional library material as well as a wide range of electronic resources.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
live' projects, oral examinations, and conferences.", 'You are encouraged to build links with employers and to develop skills in analytics, problem-solving, research methods, team-working, and public speaking.
In the final year, you have the opportunity to combine your skills and undertake their own chosen area of study in the preparation of an Independent Study. These methods of assessment are designed to enable you to develop a range of transferable skills.
Placements
ll havethe opportunity to apply for the voluntary, competitive work placements scheme which is run with a local council. This offers valuable experience of a professional policy environment and a chance to observe how policy is set by central government and executed by local authorities, including how competing priorities can result in different decisions about where to allocate resources. Please note, this opportunity is subject to the councils ongoing commitment to the scheme, and that students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking a placement.", 'Study Abroad Year
t need to pay a tuition fee to either the University of Lincoln or the host university, but will be responsible for covering travel, accommodation, and living costs and where applicable, visa costs.", 'The Great Central Warehouse Library
At the heart of student life is our library which offers access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
Learning Lounges
You can take advantage of our range of modern study areas located across campus, which include learning lounges that give you the opportunity to study alone or with your friends and course mates.
Computer Suites
A range of computer suites is available in buildings across our Brayford Pool Campus.
Features
The teaching team have excellent links with local criminal justice agencies, includingthe Lincolnshire Police, local youth offending service,local councils, policy makers, and the third sector. These provide opportunities for partnership delivery of modules, guest lectures offering professional insights, as well as volunteering, dissertations and additional student projects.
What Can I Do with a Criminology and Sociology Degree?
Graduates have gone on to positionsin a a diverse range of areas, including roles in the probation and prison services, health and social services, police authorities, youth work, victim support, government policy, and education. Some students progress to further study at Masters and doctoral level.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent qualification
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications. 
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Criminology
BA (Hons) Social Policy
BA (Hons) Sociology
LLB (Hons) Law
LLB (Hons) Law and Criminology
