Creative Writing
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Part-time
Part-time study is available.
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
W801
Academic Year
Live the Writing Life at the University of Lincoln. If you love to read and write and want to explore the boundaries of your own creativity, Creative Writing at Lincoln can provide you with a new appreciation of literature.
Students can develop their own distinctive voice as an author and philosophy of composition, as well as explore the theory and practice of building a diverse portfolio of work across forms and styles. As a Creative Writing student at the University of Lincoln, you have the opportunity to work with, and become part of, an international community of writers who will aim to help you develop your skills in genres as diverse as prose fiction, psychological thrillers, scriptwriting, poetry, creative non-fiction, audio dramas, young adult fiction, multi-modal writing and the graphic novel. Our aim is to help you to develop your writing in innovative and exciting ways, becoming the best writer you can be.
The course has a strong focus on employability and aims to prepare you for a professional writing or publishing career. Our teaching team consist of highly experienced and enthusiastic professional writers whose work has been internationally published, broadcast, and staged. They include science fiction writer Chris Dows, poet and literary translator Daniele Pantano, novelists Sarah Stovell, Guy Mankowski and Robert Weston, poet Fee Griffin, playwright Sue Healy, multi-modal author Sherezade Rangel, and copywriter Andrew Boulton, most of which are award-winning in their own genres and writing formats.
The Lincoln Review' (www.lincolnreview.org), an international literary journal edited exclusively by undergraduate and postgraduate students; and to benefit from the experience of a range of writers, editors, dramaturges, producers, and directors who come to the University of Lincoln as visiting lecturers, such as Ann Cleeves, Andrew Graham-Dixon, Chris Packham, and the former Poet Laureate Carol Ann Duffy, who became a Visiting Artist at the University in 2015 and regularly visits Lincoln to engage with students and read a selection of her works.", 'Why Choose Lincoln

Subject ranked in the top 20 in the UK for student satisfaction*

Staff include active professional authors in a variety of genres 

Option to study abroad at a partner university

Active research community of staff and students 

Hear from guest speakers including published authors 

Build your portfolio of creative writing pieces 
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 56 ranking institutions).
How You Study
The BA (Hons) Creative Writing programme concentrates on the practice and theory of developing a portfolio of work across a diverse array of forms and styles.
As well as discovering your own voice, you will have the opportunity to explore a range of techniques and practices which come from a wide range of historical and contemporary literature, both popular and classic, across poetry, prose, and scriptwriting.
s workshop, where there is a strong emphasis on participation. You will have the opportunity to learn the habits of a professional writer, including keeping a writer's journal, research and observation, redrafting and editing and presenting work to a high standard. The drafting process of creative texts and development of critical analyses will require a significant self-study commitment for the work to fulfil its potential. This is particularly true of the third-year Final Major Project, the most significant creative text a student will produce and worth a quarter of the entire degree classification.", 'Throughout the three years, you can build up your portfolio and discover the commercial and social contexts of publishing in the 21st Century. 
Delivery is predominately via seminars where tutor feedback and peer review is actively encouraged. Second and third year modules feature lecture programmes on which workshops aimed at practising the creative, technical, and academic topics explored in the lectures are based. 
While some modules include presentations, there are no examinations on this course at any level.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; but the greatest emphasis is on the production of a creative portfolio. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year, and the University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly. Please note this course has no examinations.
Guest Speakers 
Teaching is enriched by workshops, readings, and masterclasses with visiting contemporary authors, editors and other industry professionals. Former Poet Laureate Dame Carol Ann Duffy is a Visiting Artist  and has visited the University to read a selection of her works. Students have also enjoyed masterclasses with TV presenter and author Chris Packham. The Creative Writing team were delighted to welcome award-winning science fiction writer Robert Shearman as a visiting senior fellow. 
Staff Expertise
Students have the opportunity to learn from active professional authors with interests in fields as diverse as psychological thrillers, creative non-fiction, and graphic novels. Their publications include novels, plays, short films, audio dramas, graphic novels, poetry, and prize-winning short stories.
Philip Dixon-Smith
BA (Hons) Creative Writing
Study Abroad
An option exists for second-year students to study abroad for a semester at a partner institutions in North America.Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while studying abroad.
Great Central Warehouse Library 
The Universitys on-campus Great Central Warehouse Library is open 24/7 during key times of the academic year and provides access to more than 200,000 journals and 600,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
What Can I Do with a Creative Writing Degree?
Creative Writing graduates may choose to pursue careers in various literary and creative professions, such as publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, marketing, the civil service, and communications. Students can choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level or take qualifications in teaching.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit, or equivalent
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
For further advice on IELTS and the support available, please contact the International College by email at internationalcollege@lincoln.ac.uk.


For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Creative Advertising

BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing

BA (Hons) Fine Art

BA (Hons) Graphic Design

BA (Hons) Illustration



