Dance
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
W500
Academic Year
s BA (Hons) Dance degree explores the link between creative practice and the theoretical study of dance with the opportunity to examine disciplines including technique, choreography, performance, teaching, and research. ", 'Dance training at Lincoln focuses on contemporary techniques and works to develop and nurture creative practice. A variety of modules aim to help students to develop transferable skills in preparation for their future career.   The course offers a daily dance class in contemporary techniques, contemporary ballet, commercial-based practices, anatomy and fitness, choreography and performance (live, digital, and site specific) and dance management and production. The course aims to equip students with the knowledge essential to become self-producing artist operating within the dance industry as well as those interested in pursuing a portfolio career within the arts after graduation.   The practice-based curriculum reflects the vocational needs of professional dancers. It gives students the opportunity to engage with practical and theoretical methods to become stronger dancers and more dynamic dance-makers.  
This degree is founded in professional practice, and the Lincoln School of Creative Arts is proud to be part of a vibrant community of academics and professional artists. Students can benefit from a visiting artists programme and participate in professional company workshops.
Why Choose Lincoln

Subject area ranked in the top 20 in the UK*

450-seat professional theatre on campus 

Opportunities to tour performances around the UK 

Optional additional qualifications/awards

Opportunities to perform with the Lincoln Dance Collective 

Credits which can be used against ticketed performances at the Lincoln Arts Centre

How You Study
The course is organised into four strands that develop throughout the duration of the programme and are designed to prepare students for graduation. These are:- Dance Technique- Improvisation and Choreography- Critical Contexts and Applied Practice- Industry and Employability
This allows students to develop advanced skills in a range of areas to enhance employability prospects. Students may also be able to explore other creative disciplines through lenses of urgent cultural agendas, themes, and ideas, to see how performers, creators, and thinkers can work together.
Initially the course focuses on the fundamentals of technique, choreography and improvisation. It progresses to expand bodily awareness through other areas of dance, such as dance anatomy and fitness, somatic practices, digital/screen-based practice, and contact improvisation. In the final year, students will have the opportunity to demonstrate and enhance their skills to refine their own interests or specialisms.
Students can participate in a touring dance company, independent practice as research, choreographic projects, and dance in education. Students will also have the opportunity to attend lectures that consider the market and industry to develop skills for managing, producing, funding, and marketing their own work.
s partner institution in Norway, enabling them to experience international approaches to dance training. Students who choose to study abroad or undertake work placements are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.Lectures and seminars are supplemented by studio and workshop sessions, which aim to form an understanding of both the theoretical and practical aspects of dance. Students may also have the opportunity to work away from the University on outreach, performance tours, and community-based projects, incorporating technical and vocational skills, in order to experience dance as a creative enterprise.", 'Across the course students will be encouraged to stretch and expand their skills and may also have the opportunity to undertake a deeper exploration of an area which interests them.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Most modules on the course are assessed through practical performances and written work that takes the form of notebooks, analytical essays, case studies and reflective reports. 
In the first year, assessment is 52.5% coursework and 47.5% practical exams. In the second year it is 50% coursework and 50% practical exams. In the third year it is 42.5% coursework and 57.5% practical exams. 
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Regular opportunities to perform are available through our extracurricular performance company The Lincoln Dance Collective and our third-year performance company, which both undertake an annual national tour.
Students are offered the option to study for the International Dance Teachers' Association (IDTA) Level 4 Diploma in Dance Teaching. Training sessions are extracurricular and usually take place in the evenings or at weekends. Fees apply.  
There are opportunities to work with guest lecturers and choreographers to create professional performance work.
Facilities 
Students can work and perform in the Universitys on-campus Lincoln Arts Centre, a 6 million, 450-seat professional theatre with industry-standard studio spaces. The Centre, part of a busy arts community, hosts professional performances alongside student productions.
During my time at Lincoln, I have had the opportunity to develop myself as a dancer, performer, and choreographer. What first attracted me to Dance at Lincoln was the variety of modules that were on offer, and I felt these would enable me to grow in all areas of my dance practice.
Charlotte Bennett
BA (Hons) Dance graduate 
What Can I Do with a Dance Degree?
Dance graduates are well-placed for a wide variety of careers, including performance, choreography, community arts leadership, education, and arts management.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/


For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Interviews
Once we have received your application via UCAS, you will be invited to a face-to-face audition date. The audition will include a Dance Technique and Creative workshop. There will be group interviews to give us a chance to get to know you and for you to ask any questions you may have. There will be opportunities to meet current staff and students, as well as see more of the campus and facilities.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Clothing for class = estimated 40 per year
Costumes for performances = estimated 20 for performance costumes
Kneepads= 10
The Lincoln Dance Collective and our third-year performance company both undertake an annual national tour. Please note that additional costs may apply. 
There is currently a 150 cost to attend the Edinburgh Festival Fringe with The Lincoln Company. Students are responsible for their travel and general living costs.
Students are responsible for any travel, accommodation and general living costs during their work placement or term abroad.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Dance

BA (Hons) Drama and English

BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre and Performance

BA (Hons) Music

BA (Hons) Musical Theatre

BA (Hons) Sound and Music Production

BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Stage Management



