Maritime and Defence Studies
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu

Key Information
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Military Partner(s)
Academic Year
The BSc (Hons) Defence Studies programme is intended as a Level 6 "top-up" to the FdSc Maritime Studies programme. The programme has been designed through consultation with the Royal Navy and is designed to allow students to further their careers and engage in learning that aims to equip them with the intellectual and cognitive skills demanded of a Naval Officer.
 effectiveness as independent and active learners, articulate the role and function of the Royal Navy within a political and environmental context, and develop knowledge and understanding in appropriate areas of theory and analysis in international relations, strategic studies, and marine environmental science.", 'How You Study
This is a distance-learning programme delivered through a mix of lectures and seminars, supported by individual tutorials. From the outset, students are introducted to the core ideas and concepts of each of the modules. Students also study research methodology and skills which are designed to prepare them for the selection of a dissertation research topic and comprehension of a research agenda.
Students will have full access to the University of Lincoln and Britannia Royal Naval College libraries and information services. Students will also be encouraged to utilise other resources depending where they are deployed.
Students will be set a number of reflective and research-based exercises which will be conducted and supported online. Online learning will be supported via University of Lincoln portal and the Defence Learning Portal. Students will be encouraged to adopt an independent and reflective approach to researched-based learning. This will be monitored and assessed through module logs.
Modules
This programme is intended as a Level 6 top-up to the FdSc Maritime Studies programme.
Britain and International Security (Core)
s national security and its armed forces. It will introduce relevant analytical skills and tools that may be used to understand world affairs and international security, notably concepts useful in explaining the changing dynamics of national interest and security. Furthermore, the module will encourage you to critically evaluate Britain's place in the contemporary world, and the formulation and content of the UKs national security and defence policy.", 'Environment and Naval Operations (Core)
This module investigates the effects of the physical environment on naval operations through an investigation of historical operations where the conduct and outcome were significantly influenced by the physical environment.
Dissertation in Strategic Studies (Core)
s taxonomy of educational objectives, and will prime learning about knowledge generation and management, the process of comprehension, the application of different forms of analysis, the synthesis of new insights, critical evaluation, and ethical issues in research and the presentation of results. Students should apply these research methods throughout their dissertation; when designing and planning the project and when the researching and writing the dissertation itself. The process of completing the dissertation will be academically supervised.", 'How you are assessed
Assessment methods reflect the professional, practical, and work-based characteristics of the programme. As well as summative assessments, formative assessment are used in all modules. These different forms of assessment are conducted through essays and module logs.
Programme assessments are designed around a concept of autonomous research-based learning, where students are encouraged to engage directly with relevant literature, concepts, and ideas, developing the capacity for reflection and to think critically and independently.
The dissertation will requires students to demonstrate an independent capacity to devise a coherent research title/question; comprehend a research agenda and outline a research plan; identify any important methodological or ethical issues in conducting the research; retrieve and deploy a significant amount of information, drawing on some of the key pieces of literature and some primary source material; deploy an appropriate and logical method of analysis in order to deliver insights; and engage with the research community or literature in order to test arguments or insights.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
All student recruitment is carried out by the Royal Navy and all students are subject to the Officer Recruitment programme. Officer recruitment is a competitive process involving interviews, assessment centre, referencing and written applications. Normally entrants have a minimum of two strong A levels. Students must successfully complete the FdSc Maritime Studies before being eligible for this programme.
How to Apply
To apply for this programme, applicants must follow the process described below.
Step 1
Applicants should contact the Course Leader,Simon Murden (smurden@lincoln.ac.uk) to discuss the programme. All applicants must complete the Enquiry Form. If suitable, you will be provided with an academic reference letter to be used during the formal application process.
Applicants can also contact the Route to Honours Team to discuss funding requirements. Contact: Nicola Thurston (Nicola.Thurston957@mod.gov.uk). If eligible, applicants are provided with a sponsor letter confirming Route to Honours funding.
Step 2
Apply Online using our online application system.
As part of this process you will upload your reference letter from the course leader, your confirmation of FdSc (certificate or transcript), and a photo of your military ID or passport.
Enrolment and Fees
Students must successfully complete the FdSc Maritime Studies before being eligible for this programme. All student recruitment is carried out by the Royal Navy and all students are subject to the Officer Recruitment programme. Officer recruitment is a competitive process involving interviews, assessment centre, referencing and written applications.
Please contact selborneadmin@lincoln.ac.uk for more information about enrolment or fees.


