Drama, Theatre and Performance
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Part-time
6 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
W400
Academic Year
Our Drama, Theatre and Performance degree gives you the opportunity to create, perform in, and examine a broad and inspiring range of innovative theatre and performance practices from across a variety of styles, aesthetics, and cultures.
Led by experts in theatre and performance research, professional performers, theatre makers, and industry specialists with national and international connections, this course will help prepare you for a choice of careers whether in drama/theatre, the wider arts and cultural industries, or beyond. 
You can develop an understanding of theatre and performance by exploring it through a variety of current and global perspectives, including different culture, histories, politics, and aesthetics. At the same time as studying the subject, you can learn and progressively employ a range of creative skills and performance practices, all the way from devising, dramaturgy, and ensemble work, to specialised acting technique both for stage and screen. Whether you wish to study the discipline, create work of your own, or engage with acting skills and performance technique, you will have the opportunity to navigate your own journey through the programme, develop your own artistic practice, and choose to focus on what is of greatest interest to you.
As part of your studies, you may also choose to study abroad through one of our many international schemes, or take up a placement in a professional setting, working alongside a theatre company, arts organisation, school or other education setting.
Why Choose Lincoln

Subject area ranked in the top 20 in the UK*

450-seat professional theatre on campus 

Opportunities to tour performances around the UK 

Optional extracurricular technique classes

Exchange opportunities in Canada and North America 

Credits which can be used against ticketed performances at the Lincoln Arts Centre
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 84 ranking institutions).

How You Study
The BA (Hons) Drama ,Theatre and Performance degree interrogates practice and theory side by side, creating a broad, interconnected range of knowledge and experience for our students. 
Students on the Drama, Theatre and Performance degree can work alongside Film Production students in a shared project where they are able to explore fundamental approaches, techniques, and practicalities involved in acting for camera. At the same time, students with interests in aspects of the discipline such as Shakespeare, stage combat, theatre for children, scriptwriting, and popular performance are able to explore their interests in these areas and many more. Not only will you have the ability to study modules related to drama, theatre and performance, the degree gives you the ability to select optional modules from across the Lincoln School of Creative Arts if you wish, allowing you incredible diversity in your choices, flexibility in customising your own pathway, and opening you up to new experiences and horizons. 
Within the drama curriculum itself, employability lies at the heart of what we offer, with a suite of optional modules that encompass those that wish to enter teaching, arts administration, portfolio creative careers, acting, performing, directing, and much more.
Modules aim to give you an insight into the professional side of the cultural sector, and project-based and performance assessments look to equip you with a host of transferable skills, from problem-solving, project management, and marketing and advertising, to enable you to become self-directed, resourceful, and creative, increasing employability prospects and equipping you for your future career.
Teaching practice  in the School is diverse and takes place mainly through lectures, seminars, studio-based workshops, and individual tutorials. You may also receive opportunities to engage in practical workshops and talks delivered by a variety of guests including practitioners, academics, and industry leaders. Students may have the opportunity to participate in external visits and theatre trips, where offered.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
As this course aims to develop a wide range of practical and intellectual skills, assessment is varied and includes presentations, written projects, individual and group practical work, projects, and portfolios, in addition to academic essays.
There are no formal end-of-year examinations. Throughout the degree, students are assessed through their production of practical and written work.
Specialist Facilities
Study Abroad
The growing reputation of the Lincoln School of Creative Arts facilitates partnerships with other international institutions. We have established two exciting study abroad affiliations with the University of Ottawa in Canada and at Drury University in Missouri, USA. These partnerships enable up to eight students per year to participate in an exchange programme, where they will study for a term at one of these partner institutions. These international exchange programmes can provide a fantastic opportunity for students to develop life skills, expand the breadth of their education, and enhance their employability upon graduation. Exchange students applying to study outside of Europe do not pay tuition fees at their host university, but continue to pay tuition fees at their home institution. Participants will usually be responsible for all other costs including travel, accommodation, general living expenses, visas, insurance, vaccinations, and administrative fees at the host institution.
s Student Experience", 'Hear from our BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre & Performance student, Daisy, as she shares her course highlights, providing a glimpse into the vibrant student life in Lincoln.

Extracurricular Opportunities
Pursuing the Drama, Theatre and Performance degree also provides multiple extracurricular opportunities for you to perform, create work, and engage with events with an exciting range of partners, including students from across the School of Creative Arts, professional artists and performers, our host partner venue Lincoln Arts Centre; and esteemed external organisations such as In Good Company, the Midlands flagship project offering support and business development to artists and theatre makers.
Previous organisations we have worked with also include BBC, National Youth Theatre, Nottingham Playhouse, and the Royal Air Force.
The Lincoln Company
s professional company of emerging theatre, dance, and performance makers. Members can take on a variety of roles within the company such as performing, writing, directing, and producing. As the company-in-residence at Lincoln Arts Centre, they work to produce and tour high-quality, original performance to venues and festivals around the UK including Edinburgh Festival Fringe  the worlds largest platform for the arts.", 'Drama at Lincoln challenged me in the best way, pushing me both as a person and a performer. The diverse range of modules ignited my passion for the wild variety of freelance work I partake in as an actor, theatre-maker, and puppeteer. It was hands down the best three years of my life and I wouldnt be the person I am today without the experience.
Felicity Donnelly 
BA (Hons) Drama and Theatre
Employability
Employability lies at the heart of the what we offer, with a suite of optional modules that may appeal to those who wish to enter teaching, arts administration, portfolio creative careers, acting/performing/directing, and much more. Modules can give you an insight into the professional side of the cultural sector, and project-based and performance assessments will equip you with a host of transferable skills, such as problem-solving, project management, and marketing and advertising, to enable you to become self-directed, resourceful, and creative, increasing employability prospects and equipping you for your future career.
What Can I Do with a Drama, Theatre and Performance Degree?
Graduates can develop the skills and knowledge relevant to a variety of roles within the theatre industry, including performer, director, playwright, producer, and stage manager. There is the opportunity to progress to related professions in the wider creative industries, including publishing, marketing, events coordination, accessibility arts, and venue programming, and to work in television, film, and radio. Some students may choose to undertake further study at postgraduate level or undertake qualifications in teaching.
Recent graduate destinations have included theatre making, directing, stage management, technical theatre, producing, arts administration, teaching, dramatherapy, and working for BBC radio and television.
Studying at Lincoln was the best decision I made. It set me up for my career working as an Assistant Director at The Royal Shakespeare Company, an Associate Director at National Theatre, and Director at Curve Theatre. Lincoln provided the skills, knowledge, and understanding of the Arts I needed to pursue my career as a Director. 
Mandeep Kaur Glover
BA (Hons) Drama and Theatre and MA Theatre graduate 
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/


For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Interviews
As part of the admissions process, applicants are required to attend an interview day with tutors from the Lincoln School of Creative Arts. The interview day consists of a short interview and taster workshops.You will also have the opportunity to ask questions, meet staff and students, and see our facilities.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
s Edinburgh Festival Fringe performances there are additional costs. Students are currently required to contribute 150 towards the cost of attending the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and are responsible for their travel and general living costs. ", 'Accommodation costs in Edinburgh are covered by the University. An approximate break down of these costs includes 570 for travel, accommodation and a levy to participate, and an additional 200-400 to cover the cost of meals and entertainment during the trip. These costs are based on those incurred by individual students during the 2015 performances.
Those who choose to undertake a period of study abroad are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
There may be additional costs associated with external visits.
Take a look at one of our performances!
Devising & Making' module from our BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre and Performance first years. This is just one of the exciting and diverse productions that our students create and perform.", '
My time at Lincoln was the most enjoyable, creative, and though-provoking time of my life. The lecturers helped to provoke and inspire me, leading me into my current career as a Drama teacher. I certainly made the right choice going to Lincoln - I made friends for life and learnt things Ill never forget.
Ryan Gooderham
BA (Hons) Drama and Theatre graduate 
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Dance

BA (Hons) Drama and English

BA (Hons) Music

BA (Hons) Musical Theatre

BA (Hons) Sound and Music Production

BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Stage Management



