Ecology and Conservation
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C180
Academic Years
Conserving biodiversity and avoiding the extinction of species are huge global challenges. It has never been more important for scientists to understand organisms and ecosystems, and how they respond to the threats they face.
Ecology and Conservation at Lincoln seeks to explore the natural world, from individuals to populations, and communities to ecosystems. Students are able to examine how organisms interact with each other and their environment, and how these processes are affected by human activities. This helps them to understand the planetary ecosystem and how it responds to environmental change. Students can learn key practical skills that professional ecologists and conservation practitioners are looking for in graduates.
The course offers a diverse programme that aims to provide a firm grounding in the principles of ecology and conservation. It aims to enable students to specialise in the areas that interest them. It is taught by research-active staff in both the Department of Life Sciences and Department of Geography, who specialise in a wide range of disciplines across evolution, ecology, zoology, and environmental health. Key industry-relevant skills are taught by practitioners that have included guests from Lincolnshire Wildlife Trust and Forestry England, as well as speakers from a range of employers from across the sector.
Alongside fully-funded day trips throughout the degree to locations which have previously included Kew Gardens and the Millennium Seed Bank, this course also includes a residential field trip in the UK to study ecology in a field setting. There is an additional optional overseas field trip in the final year where previous students have visited the Andean Cloud Forest in Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and boreal forests in Finland.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject area ranked in the top 10 for student satisfaction*
Optional overseas field trip to locations around the world
Optional placement year
Taught by experienced research-active staff
Fully-funded residential field trip and day trips in the UK
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 96 ranking institutions)
How You Study
This degree is designed to provide a broad understanding of the key aspects of ecology and conservation, and emphasises gaining practical skills in the field and laboratory.
soft' skills in scientific methods and communication, which can be invaluable in many workplaces, but are especially critical for ecology and conservation. There is also an opportunity for students to gain professional experience by undertaking a placement year, between the second and third year of their studies.", 'In the first year, students have the opportunity to develop a broad understanding of biological concepts, including ecology, animal and plant anatomy and physiology, as well as key skills in environmental monitoring.
During the second year, more specialist modules include conservation biology, evolution, and managing of ecosystems. Students can choose from a selection of optional modules to align their studies with areas of particular interest.
There is an emphasis on independent research in the third year, and students are expected to undertake a substantial research project, as well as modules to develop critical scientific skills. This degree combines demonstrations with hands-on work in-lab or in-field.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop their ability to communicate scientific knowledge effectively, in different contexts, different formats and to different recipients.
soft' skills in scientific methods and communication, which can be invaluable in many workplaces, but are especially critical for ecology and conservation. There is also an opportunity for students to gain professional experience by undertaking a placement year between the second and third year of their studies.", 'In the first year, students have the opportunity to develop a broad understanding of biological concepts, including ecology, animal and plant anatomy and physiology, as well as key skills in environmental monitoring.
Students will also have the opportunity to develop their ability to communicate scientific knowledge effectively, in different contexts, different formats, and to different recipients.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, videos, reports or dissertations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year.
Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, videos, reports, or dissertations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year.
Overseas Field Trip
There is an optional overseas field trip in the third year. This will provide the opportunity to do research in a novel environment and to study local plants and animals. Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, andMolise in Italy.
Optional field trips may incur additional costs, including flights. Students may also be required to pay for overnight stays, local travel, and food close to the destination if their flights arrive the day before the team are scheduled to meet.Students may bring personal items of clothing and travel equipment, some of which may be specialised for the environment they are travelling to, and recommended medicines and travel toiletries such as anti-malaria medication, vaccinations, insect repellent and sunscreen. These costs will depend on what you choose to bring.
Alongside a fully funded residential field trip in the UK, students on this course can take part in an optional overseas field trip in the third year.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Molise in Italy.
On each trip students are introduced to local flora and fauna, present a group project, and complete an identification test of plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates.
Optional Placement Year
All full-time students on this course may take an optional placement year between the second and third year of the programme. While these placements are student-led, you will be continuously supported by academic staff throughout. Placements provide the opportunity to gain workplace experience and a chance to hone your skills in a professional environment.While you are on an optional placement in the UK, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and meals costs.
I chose this course as it combined my two favourite subjects: Geography and Biology. I really liked the unique blend and it enabled me to study key elements from both subjects.
Ellen Butcher
BSc (Hons) Ecology and Conservation
What Can I Do with an Ecology and Conservation Degree?
Career opportunities for Ecology and Conservation graduates may include teaching, environmental consultancy, applied conservation in the UK or internationally, and science journalism. Graduates may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from Biology or Geography.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Geography.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management or Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
*not all modules are accepted. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
T Level in Science accepted.  Health or Health Science are not accepted: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology or Geography.
A combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTEC, EPQ, etc.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/lifesciences/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management or Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit.(*not all modules are accepted). 
T Level in Science accepted: Merit (Health or Health Science are not accepted)
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology or Geography.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Geography
BSc (Hons) Geography
MBio Ecology and Conservation
MGeog Human Geography
MGeog Physical Geography
