Education
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Part-time
6 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
X300
Academic Years
Education professionals make a difference to the lives of children and young people, inspiring them to learn and developing their knowledge and skills to prepare them for their future.
Our BA (Hons) Education degree invites students to consider education within different learning environments and review education systems across the world.
The study of education provides an insight into how children and young people learn and the ways in which this is shaped and delivered. This degree looks at learning and teaching through four key areas: philosophy, sociology, history, and psychology.  
The programme considers the different ways in which education is implemented and understood throughout the UK and globally. The aim of the degree is to support our students to understand and question current and historical education systems, and to consider how these systems align with policy, practice, and social expectations.
Students will have the opportunity to consider education in compulsory schools and in other learning environments not associated with typical classrooms.
BA (Hons) Education at Lincoln aims to incorporate research-based opportunities. Throughout their degree, students are encouraged to undertake small-scale research projects in an area of education, such as learning or teaching approaches, comparisons of global education systems, studies of curricula, or special educational needs.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked 2nd in the UK for academic support*
Subject ranked in the top 10 in the UK for overall satisfaction*
Conduct research alongside our expert academic team
Choose from optional modules to suit your preferences
*National Student Survey 2023 (out of 81 ranking institutions)
How You Study
The first year centres on introductory core modules which focus on learning, teaching, education, and research skills. Students can reflect on the global and local influences on policy and practice, and consider how this has shaped the ways children and young people are able to learn.  
A tutorial system operates throughout the three-year course.  The first year provides opportunities for you to develop your own personal and academic skills and can provide a sound basis for transition to the second year.  The course also includes a series of scheduled meetings with a personal tutor.
In the second and third years, teaching focuses on special educational needs and diversity, research methods in education, and perspectives in education. You are able to choose optional modules to support your own specific interests. These currently include Studies of Childhood; Curriculum: Principles and Purposes; Psychology of Education; and Intermediate Education.
The final year involves the completion of an extended research-based project. This, along with further elective modules, aims to provide opportunities for you to build on your own interests and may be determined by your career aspirations.
Teaching takes place in lectures, seminars and workshops, and in small groups, depending on the level and the topic of study. In addition, staff use the intranet to provide materials to support teaching; course materials are posted to an online virtual learning environment to supplement face-to-face teaching and support onsite and remote study.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The aims of module assessments are to provide a measure of the development and attainment of course outcomes, including the attainment of high-level intellectual skills such as critical analysis and evaluation.
Accordingly, the methods of assessment varies across the three levels of the course, and can include essays, course work, portfolios, presentations, reports and data analyses. Assessments at levels one and two focus on the acquisition and understanding of knowledge and skills. In contrast, the level three assessments place far greater emphasis on the ability to apply, analyse, and evaluate knowledge.
Placements
Students will be encouraged, through the study of various modules, to consider education from a global perspective. Whilst formal placements are not currently included in the BA (Hons) Education course, we do encourage students to consider the possibilities of taking part in the Lincoln Award:http://lincolnsu.com/lincolnaward.
The Colleges Work Opportunities Hub, which looks to identify suitable placements for students, can help those seeking to enhance their studies with work experience.
International Study
ll beresponsible for your accommodation, travel, and general living costs.", 'I love studying Education at the University of Lincoln, because the modules are so interesting and engaging. They give you plenty of insight into what you can expect in different learning environments if you decide to go into teaching. The lecturers are always on hand to offer support where I need it.
Emma Marum
BA (Hons) Education
What We Look for in Your Application
d like to hear your thoughts about the education system and why you're interested in studying this subject at undergraduate level.", 'ResearchOpportunities
ll be encouraged to undertake small-scale research projects in an area of education such as learning or teaching approaches, comparisons of global education systems, studies of curricula, or special educational needs. The course has been designed to provide you with a strong base for postgraduate study and beyond.", 'Career Opportunities
Graduates of this course would be well-placed to move into further study in the form of a PGCE primary teacher training course. Please note, to qualify to teach students in secondary education you would need to complete the first degree in a curriculum subject, i.e. English, Physics, History, etc. prior to completing the PGCE secondary qualification.
Graduates also go on to become education specialists in a number of workplaces that provide school trips for children, from museums to outdoor pursuit centres. Others choose to travel and teach English abroad.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels or equivalent qualifications
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent qualifications
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Chemistry with Education
BSc (Hons) Education and Psychology
BSc (Hons) Physical Education and Sport
MChem Chemistry with Education
