English and Creative Writing
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
Q320
Academic Year
Study world literature, explore your talents, and build a solid technical foundation as a writer with this joint honours degree.
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing enables students to consider literature from a variety of theoretical, historical, and cultural perspectives. These include poetry, fiction, and drama, as well as less traditional literary forms, such as non-fiction, audio drama, and graphic novels.
Throughout their studies, students can develop their craft as authors, building their own portfolio of creative writing pieces across a wide range of popular formats.
Teaching on the programme is enhanced by workshops, readings, and masterclasses with visiting authors. This gives students practical experience and enables them to learn from experts in the field. Recent students have enjoyed visits from Poet Laureate Dame Carol Ann Duffy, author and TV presenter Chris Packham, and art historian Andrew Graham-Dixon.
Why Choose Lincoln

On-campus library open 24/7 during key periods

Optional field trips to places of interest in the UK 

Option to study abroad at a partner university

Active research community of staff and students 

Hear from guest speakers including published authors 

Build your portfolio of creative writing pieces 

How You Study
This course introduces students to literary forms and theories, enabling them to explore texts and authors from past and present. They are able to study the various approaches to creative writing through the close reading of major contemporary authors, examining their techniques and applying them to the production of original, imaginative work.
s clear focus on employability, which aims to prepare students for a professional writing or publishing career.", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days after the submission date.", 'The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Staff Expertise 
Lincolns English academics are research leaders in their fields, and their projects directly inform their teaching. There are particular strengths in 21st Century literature, 19th Century literature, Gothic studies, American literature, and the medieval. Students may benefit from readings and masterclasses by published authors and guest speakers in the creative industries. Previous guests have included  Dame Carol Ann Duffy, Dame Penelope Lively, and Patience Agbabi. 

Study Abroad
In the second year, students have the option to select a Study Abroad Period. Students can spend a term studying at one of the Universitys partner institutions.
In order to participate, students are usually expected to obtain a 2:1 or higher in first year, have a good record of attendance and participation, and must complete an application process. A limited number of places will be available each year, and participation is at the discretion of the module co-ordinator and the Programme Leader. Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while studying abroad.
The University of Lincolns Creative Writing programme is unparalleled, offering a diverse range of modules and exceptional academic support. In comparison to programmes offered by other universities, it is by far the most outstanding Ive seen.
Jessica Toye 
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing graduate 
What Can I Do with an English and Creative Writing Degree?
English and Creative Writing graduates may choose to pursue careers in various literary and creative professions, such as publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, marketing, the civil service, and communications. Students can continue their studies at postgraduate level or take qualifications in teaching.
Lincoln graduates have gone on to work at regional and national media outlets including the BBC, The Daily Mail, and Channel 4.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
For further advice on IELTS and the support available, please contact the International College by email at internationalcollege@lincoln.ac.uk.


For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/afyafyub/ 

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while on study abroad.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Creative Advertising

BA (Hons) Creative Writing

BA (Hons) Fine Art

BA (Hons) Graphic Design

BA (Hons) Illustration



