Drama and English
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
QW34
Academic Year
Combine your passion for theatre, performance, and literature with the BA (Hons) Drama and English degree at the University of Lincoln. This interdisciplinary joint honours programme allows students to engage with the vast majority of modules available on both the Drama and English degrees and offers full access to the range of unique opportunities developed by both programmes. Led by experts in English literature, theatre, and performance research, as well as professional performers, theatre makers, and industry specialists with national and international connections, this course will help prepare you for a wide selection of careers.
The English element of the course considers literature from a variety of theoretical, historical, and cultural perspectives, while the theatre and performance components allow students to encounter creative practice, technical theatre, and performance skills together with a critical study of drama and theatre.
ll be able to curate your own journey through the programme. While the English side of the course covers poetry, fiction, and drama, as well as less traditional literary forms such as life-writing and graphic novels, in drama students can choose to focus on script work, play analysis, live performance, technical theatre, devised work, and more.", 'As part of your studies you may also choose to study abroad through one of our many international schemes, or take up a placement in a professional setting, working alongside a theatre company, arts organisation, school, or other education setting.  
ve worked with organisations including the BBC, National Youth Theatre, Nottingham Playhouse, and the Royal Air Force.", 'Why Choose Lincoln

Subject area ranked top 20 overall in the UK*

450-seat professional theatre on campus 

Opportunities to tour performances around the UK 

Readings and masterclasses by visiting authors

Exchange opportunities in Canada and North America 

Credits which can be used against ticketed performances at the Lincoln Arts Centre
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 84 ranking institutions).

How You Study
Teaching practice on the Joint Honours degree is diverse and takes place mainly through lectures, seminars, studio-based workshops, and individual tutorials.
During the first year, on the English side of their course students are introduced to literary forms and theories, and texts and authors spanning almost a millennium, from the Gawain poet to Kazuo Ishiguro. In drama, students take core modules designed to embed crucial skills, including ensemble and devising work, as well as play analysis and script performance. 
In their second and third years, students are able to tailor their degree to match their own individual interests and aptitudes. They can choose from a wide range of optional modules and complete an independent study/dissertation in either subject on a topic of their choice. At points you may also choose a suite of modules offered from different courses in Lincoln School of Creative Arts, offering the advantage of working with peers in other disciplines such as fine art, dance, and musical theatre, championing interdisciplinarity and cross-discipline thinking.
Employability lies at the heart of the what we offer, with a suite of optional modules that may suit those  that wish to enter teaching, arts administration, portfolio creative careers, performing, and much more. Drama modules will give students an insight into the professional side of the cultural sector, and project-based and performance assessments will equip students with a host of transferable skills, from problem-solving, project management, and marketing and advertising, to enable you to become self-directed, resourceful and creative.  At level three you may choose to undertake an individual research project are designed to develop critical thinking skills, as well as contributing to the drama degree showcase final year module.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessment methods on this course may vary for each module. For modules based in English, examples include coursework such as written assignments, reports, or dissertations; equally, there are practical assessments such as presentations, observations, and written exams. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year and from module to module. For modules based in drama, students will encounter a wide variety of assessment types, including but not limited to performances, essays, individual and group presentations, annotated performances, presentation of practice, portfolio, Viva Voce, structured rehearsal/workshop, and programme notes.
Extracurricular Activities
As a Joint Honours student you will be able to engage with an exciting range of extracurricular opportunities and academic/industry partners, including students from across the School of Creative Arts, professional artists and performers, our host partner venue Lincoln Arts Centre. You can also engage with esteemed external organisations such as In Good Company, the Midlands flagship project offering support and business development to artists and theatre makers. Additionally, external to the curriculum, students can apply to join the Lincoln Company, the company-in-residence at the Lincoln Arts Centre which each year works to produce and tour high-quality, original performances to venues and festivals around the UK.
Performance Opportunities
s professional company of emerging theatre, dance, and performance makers. As the company-in-residence at Lincoln Arts Centre, each year they work to produce and tour high-quality, original performance to venues and festivals around the UK including Edinburgh Festival Fringe  the worlds largest platform for the arts.", 'Guest Speakers, Field Trips, Industry Links
You are able to engage with all opportunities offered by the respective degrees. Opportunities may include industry-linked trips each academic year, one in each semester, talks from guest speakers, workshops, and masterclasses, from theatre-makers and industry professionals.
Literary study at Lincoln is enhanced by talks from visiting speakers and contemporary writers. These have included: the previous Poet Laureate, Dame Carol Ann Duffy; the writer and cultural critic Will Self; TV presenter and naturalist Chris Packham; and Andrew Graham-Dixon, a TV presenter, art historian, and Visiting Professor at the University.
Specialist Facilities
Study Abroad
The growing reputation of the Lincoln School of Creative Arts facilitates partnerships with other international institutions. We have established two exciting study abroad affiliations with the University of Ottawa in Canada and at Drury University in Missouri, USA. These partnerships enable up to eight students per year to participate in an exchange programme, where they will study for a term at one of these partner institutions.
These international exchange programmes can provide a fantastic opportunity for students to develop life skills, expand the breadth of their education, and enhance their employability upon graduation. Exchange students applying to study outside of Europe do not pay tuition fees at their host university, but continue to pay tuition fees at their home institution. Participants will usually be responsible for all other costs themselves including travel, accommodation, general living expenses, visas, insurance, vaccinations, and administrative fees at the host institution.
m now an English teacher, passing on the knowledge Lincoln helped me acquire to my students! The University helped me to become a successful academic, and the people I met, both staff and students, shaped who I am today. The best three years of my life!", 'Madelyn Essex
BA (Hons) Drama and English graduate 
Research
English staff at Lincoln are currently undertaking a diverse range of research that spans the medieval to the contemporary. There are particular strengths in nineteenth century studies (including ageing), twenty-first century literature, gothic literature, womens writing, gender studies and American literature. Creative Writing staff are highly productive as authors of forms including fiction, poetry, graphic novel, and plays, and in genres including dystopian literature, fantasy, and crime fiction. English also hosts two vibrant and productive research groups, the 21stCentury Research Group and The Nineteenth-Century Research Group.
Drama and Theatre research at Lincoln emphasises the development of contemporary playwriting and theatre-making in the UK and Europe; ethnographic and applied approaches engage with intercultural performance in a number of sites around the world; and practice-based approaches develop structures of knowledge through performance practices intersecting with political, experimental, and dramaturgical themes.
Meet the Students 
Level 3 students, Sydney Vanderhoeven-Palmer from our Drama and English course and Caoimhe Shanahan-Peart from Drama and Theatre, share their experiences of studying, practice, and research, and tell us why they applied to Lincoln.

What Can I Do with a Drama and English Degree?
Students can develop the skills and knowledge relevant to a variety of roles within the theatre industry, including actor, director, playwright, producer, stage manager, and technician. Graduates may pursue careers in related professions such as theatre making, directing, stage management, technical theatre, producing, marketing, and arts administration.
Graduates can also go on to careers in publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, the civil service, and communications. Some choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level, while others undertake qualifications in teaching.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4  or above, which must include English.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.

International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Take a look at one of our performances!
Devising & Making' module from our first years. This is just one of the exciting and diverse productions that our students create and perform.", '
Interviews
As part of the admissions process, applicants are required to attend an interview day with tutors from the Lincoln School of Creative Arts. The interview day consists of a short interview and taster workshops.You will also have the opportunity to ask questions, meet staff and students, and see our facilities.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
We encourage students to see as much theatre and performance as they can, and we support students with a ticket allocation at the Lincoln Arts Centre. Each student will receive event/performance credits which can be used against ticketed performances.
For specific optional modules where a placement may be involved, students will be expected to fund travel costs to and from their individual placement, plus any accommodation, and general living costs.
Students who wish to join runs at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe are currently required to contribute 150 towards the cost of attending and are responsible for their travel and general living costs. Accommodation costs in Edinburgh are covered by the University. 
Students on this course are expected to obtain their own copies of primary texts indicated for use and discussion in seminars (where available) and will be responsible for any additional costs incurred.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Dance

BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre and Performance

BA (Hons) Music

BA (Hons) Musical Theatre

BA (Hons) Sound and Music Production

BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Stage Management



