English
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
Q300
Academic Years
Explore a lively and varied collection of texts, from medieval literature and the Renaissance through to postcolonialism and postmodernism, with an English degree at Lincoln. Students will benefit from research-led teaching in all modules, with particular areas of strength in nineteenth-century literature and the literary and visual culture of the 21st century.
The BA (Hons) English course covers poetry, fiction, and drama, as well as less traditional forms of "text" such as life-writing and contemporary television.
Throughout the course students are encouraged to consider literature within a variety of theoretical, historical and cultural contexts. There are opportunities to study texts from a range of historical periods - from the medieval to the modern - from regional and global perspectives.
The broad range of topics enables students to pursue areas of particular interest, while individual research projects are designed to develop critical thinking skills. Students on the course will gain a range of highly transferable skills, including research, writing, and project management.
Literary study at Lincoln is enhanced by talks from visiting speakers and contemporary writers. These have included: the previous Poet Laureate, Dame Carol Ann Duffy; the writer and cultural critic Will Self; TV presenter and naturalist Chris Packham; and Andrew Graham-Dixon, a TV presenter, art historian, and Visiting Professor at the University.
By studying English at Lincoln, you can explore a lively and varied collection of texts, from medieval and Renaissance literature right through to twenty-first century culture.  
You can benefit from research-led teaching in all modules, covering areas such as the contemporary Gothic, Shakespearean studies, environmentalism, Arthurian legends, detective fiction, dystopian catastrophes, Black British writing, and Victorian childhoods.  
The BA (Hons) English course covers poetry, fiction, and drama, as well as less traditional forms of "text" such as life-writing, graphic novels, film, and television. 
Throughout the course you are encouraged to consider how literature shapes and challenges our attitudes towards others and can influence and change cultural and political opinion. The broad range of topics enables you to pursue your own interests, while individual research projects are designed to develop critical thinking skills.  
Our literature degree is inspiring, practical, and wide-ranging, preparing students for their future careers. Students on the course will gain a range of highly transferable skills for the workplace, including written and oral communication, research, analysis, independent judgement, team-working, and project management. 
Literary study at Lincoln is enhanced by talks from visiting speakers and contemporary writers. These have included: the previous Poet Laureate, Dame Carol Ann Duffy; the writer and cultural critic Will Self; TV presenter and naturalist Chris Packham; and TV presenter and art historian Andrew Graham-Dixon.
Why Choose Lincoln
Active research community of staff and students
Option to study abroad at a partner university 
Hear from guest speakers including published authors
Undertake a dissertation on a research topic of your choice
Optional field trips to places of interest in the UK
On-campus library open 24/7 during key periods
How You Study
s English academics are research leaders in their fields, and their projects directly inform their teaching. There are particular strengths in 21st Century literature, 19th Century literature, Gothic studies, American literature, and the medieval. ", 'The first year of the course introduces narrative, poetry, drama, popular culture, literary history, and literary criticism.  In the second year, students can choose from a range of optional modules that can include Arthur and his Court; Romanticism, Restoration Literature; and Experimental Writing.
Opportunities exist to study abroad for one term during the second year. Students who do so are responsible for any associated travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
In the final year, students have the opportunity to pursue specialist subjects, such as the literature of childhood, ecocriticism, detective fiction, American literature, gothic literature and film, or author-focused modules such as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Bronte, or Dickens. They also undertake a dissertation on a research topic of their choice.
Modules are taught through a variety of methods from whole-cohort lectures through small-group seminar teaching to individual tutorials and supervision. Each of these modes is designed to facilitate your learning by developing a range of different approaches to engaging with texts. 
In order to "read English" at university, students will be expected to read widely in the subject. This will mean self-guided study and reading in preparation for taught sessions, as will be indicated in the reading lists for each module.
s English academics are international research leaders in their fields, and their research directly informs their teaching. Areas of particular strength include 21st Century literature, 19th Century literature, Gothic studies, American literature, and the medieval. ", 'The first year of the course introduces narrative, poetry, drama, popular culture, literary history, and literary criticism. In the second year, you can choose from a range of optional modules which may include The Arthurian Myth, Restoration Literature, Romanticism, and modern American literature.  
You may be offered the opportunity to study abroad for one term during the second year, at universities in the US, Canada, Australia, or Germany. Students who do so are responsible for any associated travel, accommodation, and general living costs. 
In the final year, you are able to explore exciting and timely subjects, such as the literature of childhood, literature and the environment, detective fiction, American literature and culture, Gothic literature and film, or specialist author-focused modules such as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Bronte, or Dickens. You also have the opportunity to undertake a dissertation on a research topic of your choice. 
Modules are taught through a variety of methods from year-group lectures and small-group seminar teaching to individual tutorials and one-to-one supervision. Each of these modes is designed to facilitate your learning by developing a range of different approaches to engaging with texts. 
In order to study English at university, you will be expected to read widely in the subject. This will mean undertaking self-guided study and research in preparation for taught sessions. You will be provided with detailed reading lists for each module.
Meet Our Graduate!
 largest conglomerates.", '
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days after the submission date.", 'The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days after the submission date. Due to the vibrant and varied style of the English degree at Lincoln, the way you are assessed may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports, dissertations, blogs, and posters; practical assessments such as presentations and performances; and takeaway papers. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.", 'Our medieval modules typically include sessions working with manuscripts in the archives at Lincoln Cathedral or optional workshops with local artisans on medieval arts and culture. 
Students on this course are also able to attend organised activities such as play readings, film showings, and performances.
We enjoy privileged access to the Tennyson Research Centre. Located in Lincoln, it is the most significant collection on Alfred, Lord Tennyson in the world, containing more than 3,000 books from Tennysons Library, as well as manuscripts, photographs, diaries, journals, notebooks, and letters. 
Great Central Warehouse Library
The Universitys Great Central Warehouse Library gives you access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections. The library is open 24/7 at key times during the academic year, so is available when you need it most. 
Field Trips
s Globe Theatre in London. These are optional and participation on trips will not impact upon grades awarded on this programme. The costs of transport and entry fees, where applicable, are covered by the School. Students are, however, expected to cover their own subsistence costs while attending field trips.", "Staff ensure that students grow in confidence. They nurture students' passion and determination.", 'Tayler Stevens 
BA (Hons) English graduate 
Study Abroad
Students undertaking this degree have the option to study abroad at one of the Universitys partner institutions for one term during their second year. This can provide an insight into alternative approaches to the study of the subject and gives students the opportunity to experience another culture. Those who choose to study abroad are responsible for any associated travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Staff Expertise 
Lincolns English academics are research leaders in their fields, and their projects directly inform their teaching. There are particular strengths in 21st Century literature, 19th Century literature, Gothic studies, American literature, and the medieval. Students may benefit from readings and masterclasses by published authors and guest speakers in the creative industries. Previous guests have included  Dame Carol Ann Duffy, Dame Penelope Lively, and Patience Agbabi. 
What Can I Do with an English Degree?
The English programme at Lincoln can help you prepare for a range of career paths in the future. Former graduates have gone on to pursue careers in publishing, journalism, advertising, public relations, copy-writing, the civil service, and communications. Some choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level, while others undertake qualifications in teaching.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 7.0 overall, with a minimum of 6.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
For further advice on IELTS and the support available, please contact the International College by email at internationalcollege@lincoln.ac.uk.
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
s library and online.", 'If students choose to undertake an optional placement in the UK or overseas or study abroad, they will be required to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Field trips are optional and participation on trips will not impact upon grades awarded on this programme. The costs of transport and entry fees, where applicable, are covered by the School. Students are, however, expected to cover their own subsistence costs whilst attending field trips.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Drama and English
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing
BA (Hons) English and History
BA (Hons) Journalism
BA (Hons) Journalism Studies
BA (Hons) Sports Journalism
