English and History
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
QV31
Academic Years
The BA (Hons) English and History programme invites students to study history, combined with literature in English from the medieval period to the 21st Century. 
The study of these closely related fields  encourages students to analyse a range of literary approaches while exploring questions about the past, enabling you to better understand and interpret the world around you.
Students are able to study a broad range of writers, taking a global approach to the study of literature. They can choose to study periods ranging from the Roman to the modern day, and explore world  histories.
Why Choose Lincoln
On-campus library open 24/7 during key periods
Optional field trips to places of interest in the UK 
Option to study abroad at a partner university
Active research community of staff and students 
Hear from guest speakers including published authors 
Study in a city filled with history 
How You Study
This joint honours degree enables students to take an interdisciplinary approach to their studies. Students will benefit from research-led teaching in all modules across the degree.
s Craft, optional modules could include The Medieval World; Classic and Contemporary Fantasy; Ancient Graffiti; Renaissance Literature and Twenty-First Century Literature.", 'Modules are taught through a selection of methods from whole-cohort lectures through small-group seminar teaching and workshops to individual tutorials and supervision. Each of these modes is designed to facilitate your learning by developing a range of different approaches to engaging with texts, other types of material, and a variety of methodologies.
In order to "read English" and "read History" at university, students will be expected to read widely in their subjects. This will mean self-guided study and reading in preparation for taught sessions, as will be indicated in the reading lists for each module.
s Craft, optional modules could include The Medieval World; Classic and Contemporary Fantasy; Ancient Graffiti; Renaissance Literature, and Twenty-First Century Literature.", 'Modules are taught through a selection of methods from whole-cohort lectures through small-group seminar teaching and workshops to individual tutorials and supervision. Each of these modes is designed to facilitate your learning by developing a range of different approaches to engaging with texts, other types of material, and a variety of methodologies.
In order to study English and History at university, students will be expected to read widely in their subjects. This will mean self-guided study and reading in preparation for taught sessions, as will be indicated in the reading lists for each module.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way in which you will be assessed may vary from module to module. It may include written coursework such as essays, as well as written exams, group work, or presentations. 
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly, typically within 15 working days.", 'How you are assessed
s policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly, typically within 15 working days.", 'Our medieval modules typically include sessions working with manuscripts in the archives at Lincoln Cathedral or optional workshops with local artisans on medieval arts and culture. 
Students on this course are also able to attend organised activities such as play readings, film showings, and performances.
Study Abroad
Students undertaking this degree have the option to study abroad at one of the Universitys partner institutions for one term during their second year. This can provide an insight into alternative approaches to the study of the subject and gives students the opportunity to experience another culture. Those who choose to study abroad are responsible for any associated travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Field Trips
s Globe Theatre in London. These are optional and participation on trips will not impact upon grades awarded on this programme. The costs of transport and entry fees, where applicable, are covered by the School. Students are, however, expected to cover their own subsistence costs while attending field trips.", 'Studying English and History at Lincoln has been a highly enjoyable experience and I believe the University has helped me to achieve my full potential.
Joanne Tingle 
BA (Hons) English and History
Research
Our research-active staff are engaged in work which directly informs their teaching. There are particular strengths in 21st Century literature, 19th Century literature, Gothic studies, American literature and the medieval. Current research projects include studies on Shakespeare, womens life writing, the literature of homelessness, ecogothic, the literature of Brexit, detective fiction, ageing in Victorian fiction, werewolves in medieval texts, the reception of William Blake, nineteenth-century religious writing, literature and the visual, and womens writing in the time of Covid.
Students studying English are welcome to attend research events hosted by the School, which provide opportunities to learn more about the work in which members of staff are engaged, and to hear more about specialist research by visiting speakers.
Take a tour of our historic city!
Tour the magnificent city of Lincoln with two of our students as they talk you through some of the historic highlights Lincoln has to offer.
What Can I Do with an English and History Degree?
English and History graduates may go on to careers in education, the civil service, media, journalism, heritage, publishing, communications, and the arts. They may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level or take qualifications in teaching.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
For further advice on IELTS and the support available, please contact the International College by email at internationalcollege@lincoln.ac.uk.
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 7.0 overall, with a minimum of 6.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
s library and online.", 'If students choose to undertake an optional placement in the UK or overseas or study abroad, they will be required to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Field trips are optional and participation on trips will not impact upon grades awarded on this programme. The costs of transport and entry fees, where applicable, are covered by the School. Students are, however, expected to cover their own subsistence costs whilst attending field trips.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
 BA (Hons) Conservation of Cultural Heritage
BA (Hons) Classical Studies
BA (Hons) History
BA (Hons) Modern History
BA (Hons) Philosophy
