Food and Drink Science and Technology
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Part-time
4.5 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Holbeach
Academic Year
This programme can be taken as part of a Food Industry Technical Professional apprenticeship or as a qualification on its own.
The BSc (Hons) Food and Drink Science and Technology is a comprehensive programme designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills essential for excelling in quality or technical management positions within the fast-evolving food and drink manufacturing industry. This course offers a balanced blend of theoretical understanding and practical skills necessary for managing complex, multi-disciplinary teams.
The programme aims to establish the knowledge and support the development of the skills and behaviours necessary to fulfil a management role in food and drink technical and quality operations, or product development, with pathways in technical, product development, seafood operations, or agri-produce.
Key areas of study include legislation and regulation in the food and drink industry, supply chain security, new product design, process parameters and control, project management, incident investigation and management, leadership skills, critical evaluation/analysis, and stakeholder management.
Applications should be made direct to the University using the part-time application form at http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/apply.
How You Study
s National Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM) based in Holbeach.", 'Distance learning is achieved through the delivery of engaging digitally-enhanced learning materials produced by experienced research-led academic and support staff. In addition, module seminars and tutorials are typically planned to give students the opportunity to apply, investigate, assimilate and evaluate issues around the core lecture topics.
Practical sessions, where applicable, for experimentation and/or illustration of principles, practices and techniques are timetabled for the appropriate modules and typically delivered through student attendance at campus during the study weeks.
 project works.", 'For those students undertaking this course as an apprentice, an End Point Assessment is required.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
The assessment timetable is planned, as far as is reasonably practical, to take account of busy periods within the industry. For those students undertaking this programme as part of an apprenticeship 20% off the job is required in agreement with the employer.
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Further guidance is available for the assessment strategy as part of the End Point Assessment.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
GCE Advanced Levels: CCC
A foundation degree, BTEC Extended Diploma with Merit, Merit, Merit, Advanced Apprenticeship in Food Manufacturing or a related subject will be considered.
Vocational and Professional qualifications will also be considered.
Ideally, candidates will have been employed in a managerial or supervisory role in the food manufacture or related industry.
In addition, applicants must have at least 2 GCSEs in Maths and English at grade C or above. Equivalents are accepted for example Functional Skills Level 2 or IELTS.
For apprentices who do not hold Level 2 qualifications in Maths and English, Functional Skills will be offered as part of the course.
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.


