Forensic Toxicology
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Validation
Academic Year
Forensic Toxicology is the analysis of biological samples for the presence of drugs, alcohol, and poisons, using modern analytical procedures to isolate, identify, and quantify these, as well as endogenous compounds.
This programme is designed to provide knowledge and specialism in the theory and practice of forensic toxicology, along with a solid set of analytical skills, taught by practicing and research-active academics, and practitioners with specialist expertise.
Students will expand their knowledge of key concepts in the science relating to forensic toxicology, develop an array of interdisciplinary practical skills, and be aware of advances and the latest research in the field. The programme will also teach skills such as presentation of evidence, quality management, and good laboratory practice.
Why Choose Lincoln

A focus on professional practice to improve career prospects

Taught by research-active academics and practitioners with specialist expertise

Develop specialist skills and technical knowledge

Opportunities to engage with staff on research projects 
How You Study
s industry links. ", "The programme aims to develop students' practical skills including hands-on instrumentation skills, and provide a critical awareness of advances and the latest research in forensic toxicology. Students are also supported in designing, carrying out, and writing up an original research project related to forensic toxicology.  The course aims to prepare students effectively for professional employment in forensic toxicology and related areas.", 'What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Skills Development and Professional Practice
The programme offers a structured curriculum focusing on skill development, encompassing essential aspects such as crafting effective CVs and honing interview skills.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams and competency tests, such as presentations or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
What Can I Do with a Forensic Toxicology Degree?
This programme aims to prepare students for a career in forensic toxicology. The specialist skills and technical knowledge that students have the opportunity to acquire may be transferable to roles in laboratory research, clinical drug monitoring, clinical chemistry, law enforcement, border security, and investigatory agencies in the private sector. Students may also choose to pursue advanced study.
Entry Requirements 2025-26
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications including 40 points in Biology, Chemistry, or Physics.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science or Forensic Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit.(*dependent on modules studied. Please contact our Admissions team for further information admissions@lincoln.ac.uk)
T Level in Science: Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 4 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
GCSEs:  Minimum of three  at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications. 
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BSc (Hons) Biochemistry

BSc (Hons) Forensic Chemistry

BSc Chemistry for Drug Discovery and Development

MChem Forensic Chemistry

MSci Forensic Toxicology



