Health and Social Care
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Part-time
5 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
L510
Academic Years
Health and social care practitioners can make a profound difference to the lives of individuals, communities, and wider society and work in a variety of settings including healthcare, education, and public health.
The BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care degree at Lincoln takes an integrated approach, combining policy and practice. It aims to develop the knowledge, skills, and values required to take on many of the new and emerging responsibilities within a range of care sectors.
Students are taught by researchers and academics with both practical experience and professional links in the sector. The School of Health and Social Care maintains close links with health trusts, local authorities, and numerous voluntary and private organisations to ensure that teaching is informed by the latest developments in practice and policy.
Across the first year, teaching is broadly focused on understanding people and the communities in which they live. You are able to analyse the role of health and social care services, policies, practice, and systems alongside building academic skills. The second year builds on this theme by exploring how we work with people and their communities. In this year, you can consider ideas such as equality, diversity, human rights, and professional power. The final year focuses on developing within the healthcare sector and aims to enhance your skills for working with people and communities, including leadership.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject area is ranked 3rd overall in the UK*
Opportunities to study abroad
Strong focus on building employability skills
Access to staff with a wide range of experience in health and social care practice
Opportunities to engage with local organisations to develop knowledge and skills
Core focus on public health and health and social care integration
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 33 ranking institutions)
How You Study
The first year introduces students to the fundamental theories, skills, and knowledge of health and social care. This includes the context of practice in health and social care, the social and psychological development of children and adults, and the values that underpin practice. 
The course progresses to explore the wider context of practice, including mental health and wellbeing, understanding the digital workplace, equality and diversity, and health behaviours. It provides opportunities to compare health and social care practice in other countries. 
s services, working with older people in community and health care settings, and working with people in adult social care settings.", 'How You Study
We take a workshop approach to our sessions where students engage in a mixture of traditional lectures and more hands-on learning through activities, discussions, and group tasks. 
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
A variety of assessment strategies are used including formative assessment, essays, reports, poster presentations, reflective journals, group work, in-class tests, multiple choice questions, and examinations.
This degree helped me gain a strong social conscience and political awareness of the impact policy and legislation has on contemporary health and social care services across the UK.
Samuel Welham
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care
Study Abroad
ll have the opportunity to explore teaching delivered in another country, which will happen between second and third years of study. This aims to enhance your employability skills and explore the range of health and social care services available in other countries.", "Additionally, there may be opportunities to engage in shorter exchanges through our Global Opportunities Team which includes links to organisations where students can complete a variety of projects to further enhance their employability. Please note, you'll be responsible for accommodation,travel, and general living costs, however, there may be opportunities to apply for funding to cover some of the costs and the School of Health and Social Care will be able to offer support.", 'Studying Health and Social Care at Lincoln was life changing. The course content and quality of teaching was excellent. It provided me with a sound knowledge and skills base for studying at postgraduate level.
Alice
BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care graduate
Work-based Learning
ll have the opportunity to engage with work-based learning opportunities throughout the programme and will receive support to identify suitable opportunities and plan your own professional development. Work-based learning is linked to modules in all three years of the course and students will build a work-based learning portfolio in order to evidence their experiences. The type of experience on offer could range from working with people with lived experience or service providers on specified projects, to undertaking work experience within an organisation, local community or group to investigate the application of inclusive service delivery. This can be undertaken in or outside of term time in Lincoln and the surrounding areas. You'd be responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while engaged in work-based learning opportunities, however, there may be opportunities to apply for funding to cover some of the costs and the School of Health and Social Care will be able to offer support.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
96 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Merit, Merit, Merit or equivalent qualifications.
T Level: Pass (A*-C)
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 96 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above or equivalent, which must include English and Maths.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
When you choose Health and Social in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions. Here you must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Merit, Merit, Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 96 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 27 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above or equivalent, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Additional requirements:
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Social Policy
BSc (Hons) Midwifery
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Child)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health)
BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science
BSc (Hons) Social Work Practice
