Human Resource Management (Open)
 | BSc | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Part-time
18 to 24 months
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Academic Year
Our BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is designed to provide a distinct academic and practical route into the specialist area of human resource management. Students can apply and develop their knowledge and skills as HR practitioners while exploring HRM from a strategic perspective. 
This work-based distance learning programme is designed to provide an opportunity for academic recognition to those who are already employed within the discipline of human resource management, or one of its specialist areas, but who have yet to gain academic and professional recognition of their skills and experience. 
s professional competence and enable them to enhance and embellish specific knowledge, skills and abilities relating to their chosen speciality.", "The BSc (Hons) Human Resource Management is informed by the latest CIPD intermediate level professional standards. In order to achieve professional standing in the HR field great importance must be placed upon professional skills development and the application of knowledge into a distinct range of practical situations. As a result, the teaching team will take as its underpinning delivery strategy the 'student as producer' concept, and will actively encourage and expect students to develop their own approaches to assessment tasks through the application of theoretical concepts to their own working environment.", 'Why Choose Lincoln

A work-based distance learning programme

Utilises a range of digital and technological learning tools



Supported throughout by a module tutor and a range of resources
How You Study
This flexible learning programme can be tailored to individual needs and circumstances and provides an academically rigorous learning environment within which students have the opportunity to extend skills, expertise, knowledge, vision and personal/career development by:
- engaging in independent learning, reflective debate and practice, supported throughout by a module tutor and a range of resources
- focusing on theoretical aspects of business and management, offering the opportunity to apply theories and concepts to the workplace, developing knowledge in addition to a range of skills and abilities
- gaining an understanding of the dynamic nature of modern organisations and the environment within which they operate by applying module content to management situations within the workplace in increasingly integrated and systematic ways
The programme presents a framework within which students may engage in personal and professional development by integrating the acquisition of knowledge, skills and experience, whilst simultaneously contributing to organisational effectiveness. This programme is designed to be flexible and dynamic enough to reflect and absorb change and encourage the development of a range of skills and knowledge that may be needed to rise to the challenges of the contemporary workplace.
The programme presents a distance-learning framework to enable individuals to complete the programme within a two year period - the duration reflects personal circumstances, accredited experience, prior learning and work commitments.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The programmes centres around work-based learning, which is not just about the development of knowledge and a set of technical skills, but reflection and learning from experience. 
Application to context and evidence of application is central to the learning process as learning is seen as arising from action and problem solving within a work environment, centred around live projects and challenges to individuals and organisations.
Assignment briefs will detail the intended learning outcomes and requirements relating to assessment. The work-based focus of any project or assignment will involve negotiation and agreement between the student and the module tutor.
Entry Requirements 2023-24
Entry Requirements
Each programme is designed to meet the needs of students in any business who want to upgrade their operations skills and progress their qualifications to degree level. To qualify for direct entry we normally look for a recent level 5 qualification (up to 5 years old) and on-going employment in a relevant field to the course subject area.
We may also accept candidates with a level 4 qualification or extensive work experience under certain conditions. If you are unsure of your suitability for the degree, please contact our Admissions team.
If you do not meet the entry requirements for this course, the FdSc Operations Management is designed as a pathway to help meet the level 6 requirements and give you the foundation in operational management necessary for any of the work-based distance learning degree courses we offer. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/opsmgtuf/.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Optional on-campus days may be available to you. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs.
With regards to text books, University of Lincoln provides students who enrol with a comprehensive reading list and our extensive library holds either material or virtual versions of the core texts that students are required to read. However, students may prefer to purchase some of these for themselves and will therefore be responsible for this cost.
Applications
Work-Based Distance Learning students need to be in employment and have some management responsibilities, this can be management of people or resources. You will need to evidence that you can practically apply level 5 knowledge, this can be achieved by providing evidence of qualifications undertaken or professional body membership.
What Can I Do with a Human Resource Management Degree?
This programme is designed to help students advance their careers by furthering their management competence and general employability.It enable students to extend their skills, knowledge, and vision and to provide them with opportunities for personal and career development.
Working in Partnership
Lincoln International Business School works with students and organisations to enhance the contribution of business to society. For students, that means developing their business skills and knowledge to improve their career readiness.The University of Lincoln is a member of AACSB, a global nonprofit association connecting educators, students, and businesses to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders.
Get in Touch
If you would like to find out more about this course, then our friendly Work Based Distance Learning Team are here to help. You can reach them by email at askwbdl@lincoln.ac.uk.


