History
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
V100
Academic Years
History may be concerned with questions about the past, but the knowledge it reveals is relevant to how we think about ourselves and our place within society today.
BA (Hons) History at Lincoln is distinctive in the breadth of topics that students can choose to study. These include British, European, Chinese, and American history, from the Roman Empire to the end of the 20th Century.
Students of history have the opportunity to acquire skills of analysis, argument, and communication which can help them to develop as individuals, as responsible contributors to organisations, and as articulate, critical members of a democratic society. There is an emphasis on the critical examination and interpretation of primary source materials, which includes newspapers, probate documents, films, caricatures, novels, works of art, architecture, and oral testimony.
s historic buildings, the Lincoln Cathedral archives, and the Collection.", 'History may be concerned with questions about the past, but the knowledge it reveals is relevant to how we think about ourselves and our place within society today.
s historic buildings, the Lincoln Cathedral archives, and the Collection.", 'Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked in the top 20 in the UK for teaching satisfaction*
Access specialist resources at local archives
The historic city of Lincoln provides the ideal backdrop to your studies
A wide range of optional modules
Study abroad at one of our partner institutions around the globe
Undertake work placements at local museums, heritage sites, schools, and charities
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 87 ranking institutions).
How You Study
The History programme at Lincoln is distinctive in that it provides students with an opportunity to engage with a wide range of periods and cultures. Modules range chronologically from the period of the Roman Empire, through the medieval and early modern periods, to the twentieth century, and geographically from Britain to Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Americas.
The programme offers a variety of interdisciplinary approaches to the study of history including the use of film, literature, and visual and material culture, and staff specialisms include medieval studies, political history, media history, gender studies, the history of science, museum history, the history of art, film, and popular culture.
The first year provides students with the chance to develop a solid foundation of historical knowledge and introduces the historical skills required to undertake more advanced work later in the programme. It also provides students with the opportunity to develop a broader set of skills that may prove useful beyond university.
s craft. There are two survey modules which examine European history from the medieval period to the 20th Century. The remaining core modules focus on visual culture, gender, sexuality, and imperialism whilst students can choose one optional module in semester B. The range of options varies from year to year and may include American History, Chinese History, History of Art, Conservation, Classical Studies, or Philosophy.", 'The second year contains two compulsory modules and a further six optional modules chosen from around twenty modules run by our historians based on their own research and specialisms. Please note that as a research intensive department, subjects may occasionally be unavailable where the relevant historian is on research leave.
The third year contains one compulsory Independent Study module that carries a double weighting and a further six optional modules chosen from around twenty modules. These optional modules are run by our historians based on their own research and specialisms, and build upon modules taught at levels one and two.
s partner institutions in Europe or North America, giving them the opportunity to discover new cultures and experiences. Students are responsible for their travel, accommodation, and general living costs during the term overseas.", 'How You Study
s partner institutions in Europe or North America, giving them the opportunity to discover new cultures and experiences. Students are responsible for their travel, accommodation, and general living costs during the term overseas.", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
Modules
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
We use a variety of assessment forms from traditional essays and examinations to presentations, critical book reviews, and projects.
Facilities
Students studying History at Lincoln are privileged to have access to a range of unique local resources in the city of Lincoln itself.
Lincoln Cathedral
Students enjoy access to the unique Cathedral libraries which house a remarkable collection of medieval manuscripts and rare books. 
Lincoln Castle
Built in 1068, Lincoln Castle houses an original 1215 Magna Carta and 1217 Charter of the Forest. 
The Lincoln Museum
We have privileged access to The Lincoln Museum which contains artefacts from the Stone Age, Roman Lincoln and the Civil War, unearthed during archaeological digs in Lincolnshire.
International Bomber Command Centre
Discover the regions World War II history at the International Bomber Command Centre in Lincoln. Lincolnshire housed over a third of all the WWII Bomber Command Stations and the centre provides one of the most comprehensive records of Bomber Command in the world.
Roman Lincoln
Lincoln was founded in the mid-first-century AD as a legionary base. It has an abundance of Roman history and heritage above and below ground including Roman ruins and the original Roman Arch at the citys entrance.
Take a tour of our historic city!
Tour the magnificent city of Lincoln with two of our students as they talk you through some of the historic highlights Lincoln has to offer.
Award-winning Teaching
Dr Jamie Wood, who teaches on the course and is the School of History and Heritage Director of Teaching and Learning, has been awarded a Royal Historical Society Award for Teaching Innovation.
History Society
The student-managed History Society organises events, visits, and visiting speakers. Students will have the opportunity to join the society during Welcome Week
Research
 research seminars. Staff also present their most recent research findings at a regular seminar series.", 'Study Abroad
Our students have the option of a term abroad during the second year, in one of several institutions in the USA, Canada, and Europe, including the University of Ghent in Belgium; Palacky University in the Czech Republic; SUNY Oneonta in the USA; and Wilfred Laurier University in Canada. Please note that students will be responsible for their own transport, accommodation, and general list costs while studying abroad.
The course helped to shape the person I am today. I grew as an historian and in the process, learned invaluable life and career skills that will assist me in the future. I made lifelong friendships with people from around the globe, and I will always look at those three years at Lincoln as some of the best and most valuable years of my life.
Emily Steele
BA (Hons) History
Placements
There is an option on this course to undertake a work placement during the final year. Past placements have included roles in museums, heritage sites, schools, and charities. Students are encouraged to obtain placements independently, tutors will however provide support if required. Students are responsible for their travel, accommodation, and general living costs during an optional work placement.
What Can I Do with a History Degree?
History graduates may find employment in a wide range of sectors. Graduates have gone on to careers in education, government, the civil service, media, journalism, heritage, and the arts. Some go on to postgraduate study.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Students are responsible for their travel, accommodation, and general living costs during an optional work placement.
Exchange students applying to study outside of Europe do not pay tuition fees at their host university, but continue to pay tuition fees at their home institution.
Participants will usually be responsible for all other costs themselves including travel, accommodation, general living expenses, visas, insurance, vaccinations, and administrative fees at the host institution.
Students undertaking an exchange keep their entitlement to UK sources of funding such as student loans and should apply to their awarding body in the normal way, indicating that they will be studying abroad.
Students may also be able to apply to their Local Education Authority or the Student Awards Agency for Scotland for further funding to assist with travel expenses. Please contact them for further information.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
 BA (Hons) Conservation of Cultural Heritage
BA (Hons) Classical Studies
BA (Hons) English and History
BA (Hons) Modern History
BA (Hons) Philosophy
