Illustration
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years with Foundation Year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
W220
Academic Years
ll learn the drawing and illustration techniques you'll need in the professional creative world, with a focus on craft, versatility, and imagination. ", "In our large professional studio you'll explore both traditional and digital approaches to illustration and find your own distinctive way to bring your ideas to life, from creative problem solving and idea generation to drawing, painting, printmaking, and digital design. As well as developing your own personal creative portfolio, you'll have the chance to put your skills to the test with live industry briefs and the opportunity to enter international creative competitions.", 'This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry onto the full degree programme. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/.
Why Choose Lincoln
Gain industry insight from guest speakers
Enhance your knowledge with optional study trips in the UK and overseas
Specialist illustration studios and equipment 
Access to industry-standard software and technology
Enter international student design competitions 
A professional network of alumni 
How You Study
what it is
Tutors place an emphasis on experimentation, and on developing an ability to visually communicate with audiences by seeing relationships between image and text, or the spoken word. The course is also focused on helping students to contextualise the profession of illustration in relation to society.
Students are able to  develop a professional portfolio of work by engaging with independent, collaborative, and industry-led briefs and projects, and by developing a range of professional skills that will serve them throughout your career.
The first year of study focuses on helping students develop visual and conceptual skills through drawing, painting, printmaking, collage, and  associated digital, design, illustration, and thinking processes.
This is followed, in the second year, by the study of editorial and book illustration aimed at selected clients and audiences. During this year, ethically and culturally orientated issues and debates are explored. 
live' competitions. The focus is on enabling students to produce a portfolio that showcases their unique, individual abilities and a bespoke approach to illustration.", 'Studio practice is a key element of this course, and students will have the opportunity to spend a lot time in a creative studio environment. Teaching and learning experiences may include studio activities, peer groups, lectures, workshops, seminars, and group tutorials. Students can also benefit from face to face consultation with your tutor during portfolio reviews and around self-directed projects.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
As this course aims to develop a wide range of practical and intellectual skills, assessment is varied and includes presentations, written projects, individual and group practical work, projects, and portfolios, in addition to academic essays. There are no formal end-of-year examinations. Throughout the degree, students are assessed through their production of practical and written work.
Specialist Facilities
Through instilling in our design students a thoughtful and critical approach to the way they think about design and apply their creative skills, we aim to prepare them to be leaders in the creative industries.
The University of Lincoln has a comprehensive range of facilities designed to provide a supportive environment for creative practitioners. Students have regular access to workshops, labs, studios, and industry-standard equipment, as well as highly knowledgeable technicians. This environment can help students to develop their knowledge and skills, and complements our purpose-built design studios. Explore our facilities here.
Explore Our Facilities
Explore Our Degree Show
Our degree show is an exciting opportunity for our Lincoln School of Design students to showcase their work both physically and digitally to the public and businesses. 
Innovation, Professionalism, and Entrepreneurship
ll be introduced to various aspects of the illustration industry with a focus on learning skills in business, research, self-promotion, and presentation. Emphasis is also placed on self-employment and the development of professional integrity. We'll establish the professional responsibilities of the illustrator and their role within the visual communication industry and society as a whole. This philosophy aims to empower students to further their visual and professional development holistically.", 'Industry Speakers and Study Trips
 understanding of the wider Illustration community. In the past these have includedGraham Rawle, Jonny Hannah, Lydia Monks, Derek Brazell, Gareth Brooks, Scott Garrett, Tom Gauld, and Jade Sarson to name a few.", 'Students may also have the option to take part in national and international study visits. Students who choose to participate in optional study visits are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs. These optional study trips may include the Book Fair in Bolgona, the International Comic Strip Festival in Angouleme, and a range of museums and specialist exhibitions internationally.
Software
Students are provided with access to the Adobe Creative Cloud suite of software which includes Photoshop and Illustrator, LinkedIn Learning as well as the Microsoft Office suite.
One of the key ways the course prepared me for freelance life is the way they let us manage our own time and work independently, as time management and independence are key skills for freelancers.
Ellie Roe
BA (Hons) Illustration
Student Design Awards
Lincoln School of Design students have a long history of winning and being shortlisted for international and national student design competitions, and the last few years have been no exception.
What Can I Do with an Illustration Degree?
ve also gone on to work in games design, storyboarding for cinema, graphic design, and animation. An increasing number of entrepreneurial graduates have launched their own businesses and pursued careers in the broader creative industries.", 'Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s :  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Materials
Students on the illustration programme are likely to incur some additional costs for specialist art materials throughout the duration of their three years of study.
Equipment and some specialist materials are supplied by the School, especially in respect to printmaking, 3D modelling, and Adobe Creative software suite,  which enables the production of digital material. However, students will have to provide their own drawing materials, paper, pencils, sketchbooks etc. A materials list is provided at the beginning of the academic year. Students are not expected to buy everything immediately but build up an individual resource of materials suited to their interests and their project work. 
Students can purchase art materials from the art shop located nearby in the Nicola de la Haye building. The course  has recently increased its digital resources for students within the studio. However, blended learning approaches (a mixture of online and studio learning) allow students (where applicable) greater freedom to learn where and when they wish. In this way, students may wish to purchase a laptop, tablet and stylus, prior to or during their study depending on their personal approach to illustration production. 
Study Visits
Students on this course may have the option to take part in international study visits. The University covers the costs of mandatory field trips , but students who choose to participate in optional study visits are expected to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Architecture
BA (Hons) Creative Advertising
BA (Hons) Creative Writing
BA (Hons) English and Creative Writing
BA (Hons) Fine Art
BA (Hons) Graphic Design
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design
BA (Hons) Product Design
