International Relations and Politics
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
L245
Academic Year
From British politics and global conflicts, to policies tackling challenging and sometimes controversial issues, a degree in International Relations and Politics can provide students with the chance to examine some of the most interesting and important issues of our time.
s BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics degree enables students to develop the international knowledge and skill sets central to participation within a global society. Throughout the degree, students can build their professional skills and enhance their employability, and modules such as the Model United Nations help to develop valuable negotiating, speech-making, and diplomacy skills via a simulation of the UN General Assembly.", 'Why Choose Lincoln

Options to study abroad for a year 

Undertake voluntary placements in local councils

Conduct research alongside our expert academic team

Choose from optional modules to suite your preferences
How You Study
The first year of the course introduces central issues and concepts in inernational relations, global, and UK politics. Core modules focus on British government and on global politics, introducing the key concepts that underpin the disciplines of politics and international relations.
In the second and third years, students can explore theoretical foundations of the subject, offering a range of optional modules in specialist areas spanning global, national, and local levels of analysis for students to choose to suit their own preference. Students can build on this by undertaking an independent study in a research area of their choice.
The core module, Model United Nations, provides an opportunity for students to learn about the operation of international diplomacy via simulation learning. The optional module Applied Politics explores the skills and values needed to be successful in a variety of politics-related roles. They are able to conduct in-depth analysis of the institutions of British government through modules such as Parliamentary Studies, which is co-taught with the Houses of Parliament.
Our students can also benefit from the experience of our visiting professors, including Baroness Gillian Merron and former Principal Private Secretary to the Chief Whip, Sir Roy Stone CBE.
There is a strong emphasis on skills development on this course and students can learn how to collect and analyse data, draft policy proposals, produce oral and written presentations, and work at a high level of individuality, and as part of a team.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Students are assessed in the form of essays, reports, presentations and reviews, and examinations. Assessment varies from module to module depending on the subject of study.
Studying at the University of Lincoln was an extremely rewarding experience that helped me define my future career path. The course offers fascinating and thought-provoking subjects during every term of study. I was guided by kind, passionate, and knowledgeable lecturers who gave me the opportunities to thrive and develop during my time at Lincoln.
Thomas Whitlam
BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics
Placements
ll havethe opportunity to apply for the voluntary, competitive work placements scheme which is run with a local council.These opportunitiescan offer valuable experience of a professional policy environment. Placements are undertaken at the students own expense and you'll be responsible for the costs associated with general living, accommodation, and travel.", 'Study Abroad Year
t need to pay a tuition fee to either the University of Lincoln or the host university, but will be responsible for covering travel, accommodation, and living costs and where applicable, visa costs.", 'The Great Central Warehouse Library
At the heart of student life is our library which will provide you with access to more than 260,000 journals and 750,000 print and electronic books, as well as databases and specialist collections.
Learning Lounges
You can take advantage of our range of modern study areas located across campus, which include learning lounges which give you the opportunity to study alone or with your friends and course mates.
Computer Suites
A range of computer suites is available across our buildings on the Brayford Pool Campus. 
What Can I Do with an International Relations and Politics Degree?
Graduates have gone on to positions in a diverse range of areas, including roles in intergovernmental organisations, non-government organisations (NGOs) and banking and accounting services.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels or equivalent qualifications
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent qualifications
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications. 
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/


If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) International Business Management

BA (Hons) International Relations

BA (Hons) International Tourism Management

BA (Hons) Politics



