Law
 | LLB (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Part-time
6 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
M100
Academic Years
The rule of law is the cornerstone of any just and fair society, and to be administered correctly it requires skilled and knowledgeable legal professionals.
 understanding of the changing and dynamic nature of law and how it operates in practice. There is the chance to gain important practical legal skills, such as mooting, and negotiation, as well as taking part in the Lincoln Law Clinic - a pro bono law clinic which handles real cases.", 'The course can act as the first step towards a career in the legal profession. It provides the key skills and knowledge needed to go on and study towards qualifications as a barrister or solicitor. Alternatively, this course could form the basis of becoming a solicitor, via a Solicitors Qualifying Exam (SQE) route.
 understanding of the changing and dynamic nature of law and how it operates in practice. There is the chance to gain important practical legal skills, such as mooting, and negotiation, as well as taking part in the Lincoln Law Clinic - a pro bono law clinic which handles real cases.", 'The course can act as the first step towards a career in the legal profession. It provides the key skills and knowledge needed to go on to qualify as a solicitor or barrister. The course also enables you to pursue a non-legal career in a wide range of fields, including government service, business and management, and law enforcement.
Why Choose Lincoln
Professional practice through the Lincoln Law Centre
Extensive links with the local legal profession
Explore principles of modern legal practice in our moot court
A range of optional modules to choose from
Develop a wide range of skills for graduate employment
How You Study
This degree enables students to progress their theoretical knowledge of substantive law and to think about law practically. Students are encouraged to build an understanding of the context of the English legal system - its origins, history, and practices - and reflect upon policy and the social, political, ethical, philosophical, and cultural contexts in which the law operates. 
The course gives students the chance to choose areas of law in which they have a particular interest. In addition to our core modules, students can select from a diverse array of optional modules,  ranging from Police Powers, and International Law, to Consumer and Corporate modules. In the final year, students have the option of writing a dissertation or having their voluntary work in the student-led law clinic officially recognised by undertaking an assessed module.
This degree enables students to progress their theoretical knowledge of substantive law and to think about law practically. Students are encouraged to build an understanding of the context of the English legal system - its origins, history, and practices - and reflect upon policy and the social, political, ethical, philosophical, and cultural contexts in which the law operates.
A range of delivering methods are used on this course, including seminars. The seminars are a safe and constructive space for students to develop their key skills that they will need in the modern job market, including communication and team-working skills, presenting arguments, and conducting research
The course gives students the chance to choose areas of law in which they have a particular interest. In addition to our core modules, students can select from a diverse array of optional modules, ranging from Police Powers, and International Law, to Consumer and Corporate modules. In the final year, students have the option of writing a dissertation or having their voluntary work in the student-led law clinic officially recognised by undertaking an assessed module.
Learning by doing is a key feature of the law programme, and is intended to develop students skills in preparation for a graduate career. Students will have opportunities to develop their communication, team-working, analytical, and problem-solving abilities, as well as developing skills in drafting legal documents, conducting negotiations, and presenting legal arguments in our mock courtroom.
Throughout their studies, students may have the chance to compare English law with the laws of many other countries from around the world, enhancing their understanding of global issues and their intercultural awareness.
Meet Our Graduate!
It's All Hearsay
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Study Abroad
Students undertaking the programme can benefit from an optional study abroad period between their second and third years. Previous students have studied in Norway, South Africa, and Japan. Limited places are available and are allocated competitively, subject to academic criteria. Please note that students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs when studying abroad.
Law Roundtable: Our Student Experience
We asked four LLB (Hons) Law students to spill the beans on their student experience at the University of Lincoln. Why did they choose Law? Where is their favourite place to study? What is their favourite thing to do in Lincoln? Watch our video to find out!
How you are assessed
A variety of assessment methods are used to test subject knowledge and understanding. Examinations include traditional unseen papers, including both closed and open book-style examinations. 
In addition to examinations, students are assessed by coursework which takes the form of assignments, mooting, individual and group presentations, negotiations, and workbooks. Written assignments may be in the form of an in-depth case study, an essay, writing a review or reflective piece. Coursework provides students with an opportunity to gauge how they are coping with various subject areas and levels of study before having to sit an examination.
These methods of assessment allow students to show how they have acquired both legal knowledge and the ability to think critically about the subject. In addition, they allow the student to reflect on the feedback given for an assessed piece of work and to think of ways to improve the quality of their work before they sit an examination at the end of the academic year or attempt another piece of coursework.
The assessment regime also allows students to demonstrate the acquisition of key skills. Written assignments allow students to demonstrate their ability to select, interpret, and summarise legal sources. In addition, written assignments and examinations, enable students to show that they have developed their literacy and proficiency in the use of technical legal language, as well as having developed their ability to produce a sound argument based on coherence and logic. The development of oral skills and the ability to be persuasive are assessed through presentations and mooting.
A variety of assessment methods are used to test subject knowledge and understanding. 
Students are assessed through a wide range of different assessment methods, including coursework, mooting, presentations, negotiations, reflective reports, and in-class tests during seminars. Coursework is a written assessment that can take many different forms; students can be asked to write an analytical essay, an in-depth case study, or preparing legal submissions such as a letter of advice to a client or drafting a contract. The law school aims to provide students with a range of different assessments across their modules, to test and develop various key skills and attributes that will assist students for graduate employment
These methods of assessment allow students to show how they have acquired both legal knowledge and the ability to think critically about the subject. Throughout their studies, students will have the opportunity to submit formative (mock) assessments, to obtain feedback on their skills and knowledge before submitting their summative (real) assessment. Furthermore, individual feedback is given for summative assessments, which students can reflect on to develop their skills before their next assessment.
The assessment regime also allows students to demonstrate the acquisition of key skills. Written assignments allow students to demonstrate their ability to select, interpret, and summarise legal sources. In addition, written assignments enable students to show that they have developed their literacy and proficiency in the use of technical legal language, as well as having developed their ability to produce a sound argument based on coherence and logic. The development of oral skills and the ability to be persuasive are assessed through presentations and mooting.
Moot Court
s bench, witness stand, clerk's desk, and prosecution and defence solicitor's benches to simulate the environment of a working court room.", 'Placements
Lincoln Law School has excellent links with law firms in Lincolnshire and we offer our students a variety of opportunities to gain practical experience with our partner law firms. This includes a professional mentoring scheme for second year law students who are partnered with local lawyers, many of whom are Lincoln Law School graduates, and a Law Placement elective module in the third year, where you spend one day a week in the autumn term in a local firm. Admission to the Law Placement elective module is competitive, based on your grades and other criteria. Lincoln Law School also has a partnership with the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB), allowing our students to qualify as a CAB legal advisor.
Professional Practice
ll be encouraged to develop your practical legal skills by entering competitions in mooting and negotiation. These skills are practised extensively in seminars and through the student-run Law Society. In addition, there'll be an opportunity for you to take part in the University's pro bono law clinic, whereyou'll be able to provide legal advice to real people in real situations, under the supervision of our academic team.", 'Law Roundtable: Getting Career Ready
There are plenty of opportunities to boost your employability and step into a career including working with local solicitors and going on placements. Watch our video find out what four of our Law students are make the most of. 
I chose the University of Lincoln because when I visited the campus at Open Day, I knew that Lincoln would become my home. When I was greeted by a student ambassador, I felt like I was being greeted by a family member.
Emily Taylor
LLB (Hons) Law
What We Look for in Your Application
Curiosity, energy, interest and enthusiasm for the subject of law, and commitment to successful completion of the three year course. The study of law at A Level is not essential.
No specific skills are required but an interest and curiosity about the subject of law is important.Excellent communication skills will be vital for the successful student. The course is contemporary and practical in the sense it does require a great deal of participation in seminars and problem-based learning.
Is This Course Right for Me?
This course is suitable for students that have a definite interest in studying law and are fully committed towards devoting three years towards the attainment of this degree.
ll be able to access opportunities to further developyour legal career that may enable you to become a solicitor or barrister, or work in other related areas, depending on your choice of career path. An important focus of the course is to enableyour personal development to help you to get the most out of your studies.", 'Law Roundtable: Extra Opportunities
Learn from Law students what they love about the Law Society at the University of Lincoln and about an exciting study abroad opportunity. 
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent qualifications.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least five GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
In addition to meeting the academic requirements, overseas students will also be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. Please visit our English language requirements page for a full list of the English qualifications we accept. https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/ 
Can we help?The University of Lincoln offer a dedicated support service for overseas students. If you have any questions about your qualifications, or would like assistance in submitting your application, please contact our https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/contactus/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of five at grade 4 or above, which must include English.  Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
In addition to meeting the academic requirements, overseas students will also be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. 
Please visit our English language requirements page for a full list of the English qualifications we accept. https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/ 
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Criminology
BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology
BA (Hons) Social Policy
BA (Hons) Sociology
LLB (Hons) Law and Criminology
