Media Production
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
P301
Academic Years
Media Production at Lincoln is focused on the creative foundations and technical skills needed to thrive as a professional in a rapidly changing media landscape.
The course is designed to empower our students to become imaginative, creative, and culturally aware twenty-first century media practitioners with a thorough understanding of the creative industries and with the intellectual ability to analyse and challenge media conventions.
s industry-focused course offers students a comprehensive experience across the many platforms of today's creative sector. This includes TV and screen, design and new emergent media, radio, and sound. Students can find their creative voice and develop a set of specialist skills, taught by experienced industry and research-active tutors.", 'Students can gain hands-on experience through innovative project briefs, expert teaching and a wide range of high-end facilities. Practical and theoretical aspects of the subject are woven together to inform understanding of media production. Practice modules explore technique and craft in a multitude of areas. These include film production, digital media and innovative design, sound, multi-camera studio production, image creation, social media outputs, podcasting, games, script, and screenwriting, as well as rapidly developing emergent forms of media such as augmented and virtual reality.
Why Choose Lincoln
Lincoln graduates have gone on to work on blockbuster films and TV shows
Access to specialist, industry-standard facilities 
Get involved with real-world projects outside of the course
Opportunities to take part in overseas exchange programmes
Gain experience on the University's digital audio platform
Learn from staff with industry experience 
How You Study
The programme begins with a focus on the generation of creative ideas across various platforms. It introduces media fundamentals and creative workflows. Students are able to practise these skills by creating their own content and can go on to specialise in the media that most suits their personal interests and career aspirations. The course is designed to give you a thorough understanding of the exciting media landscape and allow you to curate your career as a multi-skilled creative media practitioner. In your first year, you can work and collaborate across a range of production areas such as film, video, audio, design, digital skills, and storytelling through scripts to enable you to gain a broad experience and to help you find your voice.
ll be shaping and polishing these skills with some substantial project-based modules designed to put your abilities into a professional working context.", 'Practical and theoretical aspects of the subject are woven together to create an informative approach to media production. Practice modules explore technique and craft in a multitude of areas, such as film production, digital media design, sound, multi-camera studio, image creation, social media outputs, podcasting, games, script and screenwriting, as well as rapidly developing emergent forms of media such as augmented and virtual reality. Critical studies modules present new and established media theories.
We are constantly evolving our Media Production programme to take into account the latest developments in the creative economy, technology, and creative thinking. Lecturers include experienced specialists in their chosen fields, from those with diverse research-based interests and expertise, to award-winning industry professionals.
Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism has a range of online resources and discussion groups where students can share ideas and network. A rolling programme of visiting lectures from industry professionals and creative academics enhances the core curriculum.
Students are encouraged to watch and listen to a range of broadcast outputs on terrestrial television and other online providers to ensure they are fluent in a range of genres and media.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include submitting film projects or digital media artefacts, coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations. Normally there are no formal timed examinations, though live assessments are sometimes conducted. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year.
Specialist Facilities
Students on this course have access to specialist facilities, professional-standardequipment and creative spaces to develop their skills in preparation for theirfuture career.
Audio Production Suite
Lincoln Sound Theatre
A Pro Tools 5.1 dubbing theatre for mixing sound to picture, featuring a large-screen projector, a full Foley sound effects area and a commentary booth for voice-over and ADR. Plus Sound Theatre B, a smaller facility for stereo audio post-production work. 
TV Studios
Two TV studios, one with an audience capacity of 135 and an area of over 2,500 sq ft. Features include, high definition 1080i studio cameras, extensive studio lighting, sound desk, autocue and audio and video software connectivity.
The Parlour 
The Parlour is a high-end finishing and grading suite and provides colour correction, creative compositing and image repair. It is equipped with high-spec Mac Pros, high-grade monitors and tangent panel control surfaces. Software includes Autodesk SMOKE, FLAME and DaVinci Resolve.
Video editing and post production
The Media and Broadcast Production Centre offers non-linear digital post-production for HD Video Editing. There are 18 HD video editing suites, each with 8TB storage and 32GB RAM and featuring Avid Media Composer V8, Adobe Premiere CC, DaVinci Resolve and a range of other software. We offer full HD shooting and editing, using Panasonic AVcHD, Canon C100 and Sony FS100 cameras.
Media Loans centre
Extensive media kit for student loan including cameras, lights, grip and audio recording equipment. 
Radio studios
Multi-track Recording Studios
Two multi-track recording studios comprise control rooms and recording areas including live rooms, dead rooms and a drum isolation booth for music and drama production. Equipment includes: Pro Tools, Audient ASP8024 mixing consoles (24 and 12 channels), UA Apollo and Antelope Orion AD/DA, Genelec 8030A & Mix Cube monitoring. 
Virtual Production Session
Real-Time 3D Tracking
Watch this short video that shows highlights from our Virtual Production session at the University of Lincoln. This was an interactive session in which staff and students could learn more about real-time 3D tracking. This shows the state-of-the-art facilities we offer here at the University of Lincoln and what is available for students to utilise if they choose to study here.
Exchange Programme
There is currently an opportunity to take part in exchange programmes with partner institutions, including in the USA. Please note that students are responsible for their travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking study abroad. Places are allocated on a competitive basis.
Collaborative Working
This course has a significant emphasis on collaboration and creative entrepreneurship, helping you to shape your own path as a media producer. There are opportunities, through the Lincoln School of Film, Media and Journalism Academy and our social enterprise New Media Lincs, to get involved with real-world projects outside of the course. This could range from collaborations within the College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities, international institutions, the bi-annual Frequency Festival, our annual showcase, joining our co_LAB innovation group, or working on paid professional commissions.
Competitions
Students are encouraged to enter their work in local, national and international competitions and award schemes. We have a history of success in the regional and national Royal Television Society Student film awards and for the last two years a selection of student and staff work has been showcased at Aesthetica Short Film Festival in York.
re famous!", '
What Can I Do with a Media Production Degree?
Our graduates have gone on to work in television and radio broadcasting, advertising and social media, filmmaking, visual effects, editing and post-production, photography, multi-media production, web design, and research. Projects have involved James Bond and Jason Bourne films, as well as BAFTA award-winning TV programmes such as Wolf Hall, Blue Peter, Gogglebox, and Blue Planet II. Media skills can prepare students to work in other areas, such as advertising, public relations, marketing, education, events management, and online publishing.
Graduates from the course live across the globe from the Antarctic to the US to the Pacific Islands, working in television and radio broadcasting, filmmaking, editing, photography, multi-media production, web-design and research. Organisations our graduates are employed at include Sky, BBC News 24, Channel 4, Pinewood Studios, Microsoft, and Talkback. Some have set up their own companies with the support of the Universitys business incubation centre Sparkhouse. Others, such as TomSka and Jack Howard, are popular on YouTube.
Many of our graduates keep in touch with us and take part in an annual alumni event where current students can meet with, and get advice from, past students. Some also publish blogs, articles, and come in to lecture or teach on modules.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Study Abroad
Opportunities within the EU
Students on this course will have the opportunity to study at a partner institution within Europe as part of this course. Additional information, including costs relating to this opportunity, which is optional, can be found here: http://bit.ly/uolerasmus
The University of Lincoln is committed to continued participation in the Erasmus+ programme, however, participation in future years is dependent on the nature of the UKs withdrawal from the European Union. More information can be found at www.erasmusplus.org.uk/brexit-update.
Outside of Europe
Exchange students applying to study outside of Europe do not pay tuition fees at their host university. Participants will usually be responsible for all other costs themselves, including travel, accommodation, visas, insurance, vaccinations, and administrative fees at the host institution.
Students going on exchange keep their entitlement to UK sources of funding such as student loans and should apply to their awarding body in the normal way, indicating that they will be studying abroad.
If your time away is a mandatory part of your degree programme, you may be entitled to extra funding. You should ask your funding body about this.
You may also be able to apply to your Local Education Authority or the Student Awards Agency for Scotland for further funding to assist with travel expenses - contact them to enquire.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Film and Television Studies
BA (Hons) Film Production
BA (Hons) Media Studies
BA (Hons) Photography
