Midwifery
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
156 weeks
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
B720
Academic Year
Midwives offer specialist support to mothers from the antenatal to the postnatal period, and work with a range of healthcare professionals to promote the best interests of a mother and her baby.
Underpinned by national policy, our midwifery degree focuses on women-centred holistic care, combining theory with practical placements. Successful graduates will be eligible to register as a midwife with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC).
Students will have the unique opportunity to be Newborn and Infant Physical (NIPE ) examination-ready at the point of qualifying. Newly qualified Midwives at the point of qualifying should meet with and discuss this qualification with the Practice Development Midwives/Education team to determine how their employer will support them in their transition from student to practicing as a NIPE midwife.
This course is now closed to new applications for September 2024 entry.
Why Choose Lincoln

Course underpinned by national policy

Become Newborn and Infant Physical (NIPE) examination-ready upon qualification

Access to specialist clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environments

Experience a wide range of practice placements

Register on completion as a midwife with the NMC

How You Study
The course has been structured to encourage students to think critically and apply evidence to support their clinical practice. It is designed to meet NMC education requirements for student midwives, and is informed by national policy.
The programme is both theory and practice based. There are opportunities to experience a wide range of practice placements, ranging from the antenatal to the postnatal period, incorporating intrapartum care and covering the whole childbearing continuum, encompassing midwifery and consultant-led care. It examines a wide variety of physical, social, and psychological needs, equipping students with the knowledge to support women and birthing people during their transition into parenthood.
Students are able to undertake clinical practice within a non-midwifery setting, including in a medical, neonatal unit, and within a hospital gynaecology ward. Throughout the course, students can learn about how to ensure women are able to make informed choices and remain at the centre of the decision-making process.
Theory sessions can include lectures, seminars, enquiry-based learning, self-directed study, and simulation. Throughout their studies, students can be supported by academics, practice educators, and mentors.
Theory modules can include Respectful Family Centred Care; Applied Sciences in Midwifery; Holistic Midwifery Practice; Proactive Maternity Care; Responsive Care of the Newborn; and Innovation to Transformation in Midwifery Practice.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Validation
This course is validated by the Nursing and Midwifery Council who promote high education and professional standards for nurses and midwives across the UK.
How you are assessed
The assessment methods selected for each module within the programme are designed to help you to integrate theory and practice, maximising your critical-thinking and analytical skills in order to develop a deeper understanding of your role as a midwife through reflection. In order to demonstrate competence and achieve the required NMC proficiencies, you will be assessed within both a theoretical and practical setting.
I chose Lincoln because of the fantastic facilities they have, the individualised support they offer, and the family feel on campus.
Kayleigh Thorne
BSc (Hons) Midwifery
Placements
On this course, you will be assessed in clinical practice by practice assessors and practice supervisors in all areas of midwifery including antenatal, intrapartum, and postnatal. Additionally, you can attend clinical placements in a non-midwifery environment. Please note, you will be responsible for your own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking placements.
Facilities
Located in our Sarah Swift Building, you will be able to access our realistic clinical suites which simulate home and hospital environments and aim to help you gain confidence in practice.
Facilities
Located in our Sarah Swift Building, you'll be able to access our realistic clinical suites which simulate home and hospital environments and aim to help you gain confidence in practice. 
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points from a science related subject.  (Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted)
BTEC Extended Diploma in Applied Science: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Health and Social Care or Sport also accepted dependent on modules studied.
T Levels in Health, Science, and Science and Health accepted: Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in a science related subject. (Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted).
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in a science related subject.  (Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted).
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above including English, Maths and Science, or equivalent qualifications, such as Functional Skills Level 2.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may consider work experience alongside academic qualifications and will review this on and individual basis.
Certificates of all previous qualifications will need to be provided before any offers are confirmed.
International
________________________
Additional requirements:
-  This course is not open for overseas applicants.- In order to be eligible to apply, applicants born outside of the UK must have settled residential status.
- Successful performance at an interview.- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the nature of nursing in a public health context.- Understanding of written material and can communicate clearly and accurately in written and spoken English.- Satisfactory completion of Occupational Health Check.- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS).
When you choose Midwifery in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions. Here you must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs.
We are not accepting deferred applications for Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedic Science, Diagnostic Radiography or Social Work. You must apply in the year you wish to start the programme.

Non UK Qualifications:
- If you are now settled in the UK, and do not have GCSE English, you will require English Language IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each element: http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/englishrequirements
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac....irementsandyourcountry/
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac....shlanguagerequirements/
If your application is unsuccessful, you may be offered the option of changing your application to either the BSc in Nursing (Adult) or BSc in Nursing (Mental Health). Any offers made would be subject to a successful interview (where an interview has not already taken place), spaces available, and meeting the course entry requirements.

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contextual Offers
Interviews
Interviews are conducted online in a group setting.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
From September 2023, pre-registration undergraduate and postgraduate healthcare students can apply for the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF).
re on your practice placement.- Students experiencing financial hardship (Exceptional Support Fund).", 'For more information and to see your eligibility, visit: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf
Please note, this government bursary is available to Home students only. Details on scholarships and bursaries available to Overseas and EU students can be found online: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/
Please note that International students will not be eligible for support for travel and accommodation.
Students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs relating to placements.
Placement expenses for travel, and accommodation may be reimbursed by NHS Bursaries where, for example, the requirement exceeds that of attending university; requires transport out of normal operating hours; or requires additional accommodation to that of the usual term time location. These expenses may need to be covered initially by the student before any applicable reimbursement is received.
The current rates for reimbursement can be found here: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf/travel-and-dual-accommodation-expenses
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography

BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)

BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Child)

BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health)

BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science



