Brand Management
 | PG Credit | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Programme Type
Microcredential
Delivery
6-week Online Delivery
Award
s Credits", 'Cost
260
Next Start Date
Please contact us
 understanding of  brand management and how organisations use brands to connect with customers and build loyalty. ", "Brand building is considered both an art and a science.  Building and maintaining brand equity is an important management task. In many organisations, brands are listed on the balance sheet as an asset. Additionally, brands play an important role in driving demand for a company's products resulting in revenue and ongoing customer relationships. ", 'During this course, we will look at some of  these key concepts including how organisations assess the value of  their brand building activities, how they tailor brand management activities for global and digital brands, and how they create branding appeals for different consumer audiences. By the end of this course, students should be able to analyse their own organisational brands and use the consumer-based brand equity (CBBE) model to inform their own brand management programmes.
Why Choose Lincoln
Flexible, online delivery
Completed over 6 weeks
5 Master's-level credits
Developed by experts at Lincoln International Business School
How You Study
Students will work in a virtual learning environment, engaging with independent study materials such as videos and reading content, and have opportunities to test their understanding.
Upon completion of the programme, students are expected to be able to demonstrate a critical understanding of  the importance of  brands and branding in an increasingly internationalised and globalised business environment, assess the value of  brand-building activities in creating branding appeals for different consumer audiences, and critically evaluate the importance of  applying a brand equity model when developing a brand management programme.
The main topics covered on this course include:
- Strategic brand management- Brand equity- Brand management process- Measuring brand performance- Growing and sustaining brand value
How you are assessed
The types of assessment used will range from written assignments, reports, and reflective journals, which provide an opportunity to demonstrate learning. Specific guidance will be provided by the teaching team. All assessments will be subject to specific referencing and citation requirements, and University regulations relating to assessment, submission, and resits.
s credits.", 'Explore Flexible Learning
From short courses and microcredentials, to professional development modules and fully online Masters degrees, we offer a range of flexible programmes to suit your individual needs. Our suite of programmes uses a variety of delivery methods, including online-only, face-to-face, blended, and distance-learning approaches.
Combining Courses
Students who successfully complete three microcredential programmes from the same subject category may use this as Accreditation of Prior Learning against a module on our MBA Leadership programme. For more information, please contact us.
Bespoke Microcredentials for Businesses
If your organisation is interested in bespoke microcredentials for a group of employees, please contact our team at mc-admin@lincoln.ac.uk.
