Mathematics and Computer Science
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
GG14
Academic Years
With digital technologies driving advances in many aspects of the modern world, there is growing demand for graduates with combined skills in mathematics and computer science across a wide range of sectors.
The BSc (Hons) Mathematics and Computer Science joint honours degree at Lincoln offers a broad education in applied and pure mathematics, coupled with the opportunity to develop the analytical and problem-solving skills associated with computer science.
Mathematics is at the foundation of many different areas, and the joint aspect of this programme provides students with the opportunity to access a higher level of understanding in both fields, as a combined effort.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked in the top 10 in the UK for student satisfaction*
Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA) accreditation
 Informed by cutting-edge research 
Guest speakers from around the world
Additional problem-solving tutorials
Placement Year available
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 69 ranking institutions).
How You Study
This joint honours degree aims to offer a broad education in applied and pure mathematics, coupled with the opportunity to develop the analytical and problem-solving skills associated with computer science. The programme provides students with opportunities to advance their understanding in both fields and emphasises the bridges between theory and practice.
Students have the chance to learn from, and work alongside, our team of academics. They can support and encourage them to apply imagination, creativity, and rigour, to the solution of real-world problems.
In the first year students have the chance to benefit from an additional three hours per week of problem-solving tutorials. During the first year of the programme, the School of Mathematics and Physics also runs a tutor system, providing one hour weekly tutor sessions in small groups.
The course is taught via lectures, problem-solving classes, computer based-classes and seminars.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The course is assessed through a variety of means, including tests, course work, examinations, written reports, and oral presentations. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Accreditation
Our BSc programme currently meets the educational requirements of the Chartered Mathematician designation. This is awarded by the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA), when it is followed by subsequent training and experience in employment to obtain equivalent competences to those specified by the Quality Assurance Agency for taught Masters degrees. The MSci programme is accredited by the IMA.
Research-informed Teaching
Teaching on this course is conducted by academic members of staff who are active researchers in their fields. This research informs teaching at all levels of the programme. Staff conduct cutting-edge research in fundamental and applied mathematics and physics, ranging from pure mathematics to applied nano-science at the interface between biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. The School of Mathematics and Physics collaborates with top research institutions in Germany, Japan, Norway, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the USA.
Visiting Speakers
The School of Mathematics and Physics regularly welcomes guest speakers from around the world. Recent visitors to the University of Lincoln have included former vice president of the Royal Astronomical Society Professor Don Kurtz, mathematician and author Professor Marcus du Sautoy OBE, and operations research specialist Ruth Kaufman OBE.
This combined degree comprises some of the most industry-relevant and interesting modules, which are cherry-picked from the two disciplines.
Nick Short
BSc (Hons) Mathematics and Computer Science
Placements
Students on this course are encouraged to obtain and undertake work placements independently in the UK or overseas during their studies, providing hands-on experience in industry. These can range from a few weeks to a full year if students choose the sandwich year option. Placements may be conducted with external research institutions (which can be overseas). The option is subject to availability and selection criteria set by the industry or external institution. When undertaking optional placements, students will be required to cover their transport, accommodation, and general living costs.
What Can I Do with a Mathematics and Computer Science Degree?
Graduates may choose to use their problem-solving and analytical skills to develop careers in areas such as research, IT, science, education, consultancy, finance, business, and industry in the UK and overseas. Some may go on to undertake further study at postgraduate level. Additionally, transferable skills such as communications, problem-solving, and decision-making, which students are expected to develop throughout their studies, are valuable in many spheres of employment.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Maths.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points, including 40 points from 15 credits in Maths and 15 credits in Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall, with Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths.
BTEC qualifications may be considered. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
BTEC qualifications will be considered provided a grade B is obtained in A Level Maths.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level Grade 5 in Maths.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Mathematics
BSc (Hons) Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
BSc (Hons) Mathematics with Philosophy
MMath Mathematics
MMath Mathematics and Theoretical Physics
MSci Mathematics and Computer Science
