Music
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Part-time
6 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
W300
Academic Year
Music at Lincoln is a contemporary, industry-focused degree for musicians looking to develop their skills as performers, composers, and collaborators within a flexible curriculum that encompasses classical, rock, pop, and non-Western music.
This course connects practice with theory, tradition with innovation, and personal creativity with collaborative projects. As well as working with other musicians, students have the opportunity to work with dancers, actors, filmmakers, animators, and computer game designers.
Practical skills are underpinned and enriched with an approach to studying music that positions practice alongside an understanding of musical histories, cultures, and genres, as well as developing the critical and reflective skills needed to articulate these connections.
The teaching team is made up of professional musicians and experienced researchers with expertise that encompasses numerous professions, disciplines, and media, such as musical theatre, composition, performance, orchestration, musical direction, and sound production.
Why Choose Lincoln
Opportunities to perform in a range of ensembles
Optional study abroad module 
Gain industry experience with optional placements
Learn from staff who are professional musicians and researchers 
Creative and collaborative arts community 
How You Study
In the first year, topics include the development of key musical skills, the use of audio production technology, working with a score, the role of music in society, and the contemporary music industry. Individual instrumental and vocal tuition is also available to all students.
In the second and third years, students can tailor the degree to suit their individual interests. There are degree pathways that focus on performance or composition, as well as scope for students to explore a wide range of practical and academic skills. In their third year, students can complete either a written dissertation on a subject of their choosing or undertake a practical project, such as writing and recording an album or arranging and performing in a tour. Students can also curate an entire music festival in their final year, giving them the opportunity to present live work and develop key professional skills. 
Students on this programme learn from academic staff who are often engaged in world-leading or internationally excellent research or professional practice. Contact time can be in workshops, ensemble rehearsals, discursive seminars or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year. Tutorial sessions and project supervision can take the form of one-to-one engagement or small group sessions. Practical work can take place in recording studios, performance spaces, rehearsal rooms and Mac workstations. Some courses offer the opportunity to take part in external visits and fieldwork.
It is still the case that students read for a degree and this means that in addition to scheduled contact hours, students are required to engage in independent study. This allows you to read around a subject and to prepare for lectures and seminars through wider reading, or to complete follow up tasks such as assignments or revision. As a general guide, the amount of independent study required by students at the University of Lincoln is that for every hour in class you are expected to spend at least two to three hours in independent study. Students studying music should also schedule additional time to practise on their instrument.
The teaching team is made up of professional musicians and researchers with expertise that encompass numerous professions, disciplines and mediums, including performance, composition, musicology, and teaching music. Teaching is enhanced by visiting practitioners, masterclasses, careers events, and alumni talks.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Much of the assessment on this course will be practical and will reflect the demands and expectations of the music industries. Depending on the chosen pathway, students may be asked to perform or to create and submit their music using various technologies. Students may be required to submit their practical work as a portfolio documenting their creative process and development.
Written assessments come in various forms and are designed to develop writing skills for academic work, but also to allow students to develop industry-specific writing skills. Students may therefore produce sleevenotes, funding applications, project reports, reflective journals, professional portfolios, websites, and writing in other relevant formats.
The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
 Music Story", "Hear from Marcus what it's like to study Music at the University of Lincoln! He talks about his experiences, the facilities on offer, and much much more. ", '
Live Music and Events
s vital to experience a range of music as a listener. The degree introduces you to a wide range of music in the classroom, but also provides opportunities to see live music and experience live events such as talks and conferences. In recent years students have experienced performances at Lincolnshire International Chamber Music Festival, Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival, Nottingham Royal Concert Hall, Lincoln Arts Centre, and many others.In addition, music students organise, contribute to, and attend our Music Conference, with third-year students presenting practical or written dissertation projects. This event gives students the opportunity to be involved in the planning and delivery of an academic event where they can share their work in performance, composition, and music production, as well as through academic presentations.", 'Performance Opportunities 
There are opportunities to perform in staff-led ensembles including choirs, orchestras, and bands in a variety of styles. You can join as many of these ensembles as you like at no extra cost. We organise regular performances on and off campus, with students having previously performed at the Lincoln Arts Centre, the Platform Stage in The Engine Shed, Lincoln Cathedral, Lincoln Drill Hall, and for Lincolnshire International Chamber Music Festival.
Placements
Our optional placements module in the second year allows students the opportunity to gain work experience in the industry, focusing on a role suited to their career aspirations and specialist expertise developed on the programme. The module encourages students to reach into the wider community to hone their skills for future employment. Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while on placement.
Students recently visited London's Abbey Road Studios where best-selling albums have been recorded by artists including The Beatles. 
Study Abroad
In second year, students can choose to study abroad. This optional module enables students to spend a term studying abroad at one of the Universitys approved partner institutions. Eligible students must have completed their first year of study to a satisfactory standard and successfully completed the application process for the study abroad scheme. Students are responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking a period of study abroad.
I am able to look back and see the huge impact this course has had on me as both an academic and a musician. From developing my musical knowledge, to giving me the tools and life skills to excel in any future career path I choose, this course has played a huge role in my development as an individual.
Amber Shucksmith
BA (Hons) Music
What Can I Do with aMusic Degree?
ll have the opportunity to engage with various parts of the music industries. Previous students have benefited from connections with Frequency Festival, Lincolnshire International Chamber Music Festival, the International Guitar Foundation, Lincoln Arts Centre, Lincoln Drill Hall, and range of local venues and organisations.", 'We aim to provide our graduates with the necessary skills and experience to pursue careers as freelance songwriters, musical directors, arrangers, orchestrators, composers, studio technicians, teachers, vocal coaches, producers, agents, event managers, and arts managers among many other roles.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent. 
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Interviews
ll be asked to perform a 35 minute piece that shows you at your best, talk about your musical interests and experiences, and share with us your reasons for wanting to study at Lincoln. You will also have the opportunity to ask questions, meet staff and students, and see our facilities.", 'Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
There are no mandatory additional costs related to this course. However, we would however generally expect students to own and maintain the instrument they are studying. Though we do have pianos, guitars and drums that can be used or borrowed, other instruments may not be available.
Additional costs may apply for those participating in productions with the Lincoln Company.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Dance
BA (Hons) Drama and English
BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre and Performance
BA (Hons) Musical Theatre
BA (Hons) Sound and Music Production
BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Stage Management
