Musical Theatre
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
W40F
Academic Year
s West End to more experimental fringe performances, musical theatre spans the arts, inspiring and entertaining audiences around the world. Our BA (Hons) Musical Theatre degree at Lincoln gives you the opportunity to create, perform, explore, and analyse musical theatre in all of its diversity. ", 'Students can learn from expert staff who are practitioners and scholars trained in musical theatre, music, theatre, and dance. Workshops and masterclasses are delivered by visiting tutors, offering further opportunities to learn about the practical elements of musical theatre. Unleash your creativity, hone your skills, and step into the spotlight as you prepare for a fulfilling career in the performing arts.
Why Choose Lincoln

Staff with experience of performing in the West End and Europe 

450-seat theatre on campus

Opportunity to study abroad 

Workshops and masterclasses by visiting tutors 

One-to-one singing lessons available at no extra cost 

Gain hands-on experience in industry or a school setting

How You Study
While training at Lincoln, you can gain practical experience by immersing yourself in the process of producing and performing musicals, alongside complementary historical and contextual analysis modules.
Teaching is delivered via practical workshops, seminars, lectures, technique classes, weekly dance technique classes in jazz, ballet, and tap, and one-to-one vocal lessons. 
You can hone your skills during performances, reflecting on the productions to gain a rounded contextual understanding of musical theatre. As the course progresses, you can learn about the history of musicals and their significance in contemporary society, while undertaking more independent, industry-focused tasks, emphasising employability and preparing you to enter into a variety of associated careers.
The practical elements of the course are taught through group and one-to-one tuition with guest workshops allowing students to expand their practical professional abilities. The critical elements of the course are taught through a series of lectures and seminars.
Weekly one-to-one singing lessons are available at no extra cost, and students participate in regular dance technique classes. There are also opportunities to learn develop audition skills and develop explore the techniques of acting through song. Guidance on how to form a musical theatre company, devise a show, and tour the production around the country is also available. There are also modules where you can learn how to teach musical theatre.
As part of your studies, you may also choose to study abroad through one of our many international schemes, or take up a placement in a professional setting, working alongside a theatre company, arts organisation, school or other education setting. Additional costs may apply.
The course really helped to transform me as a performer, as well as gain insight into the industry and my place within it, particularly coming from an international background.
Andr Buhagiar
BA (Hons) Musical Theatre
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The programme uses a variety of assessments, designed to ensure you have the skills needed to enter the industry. Assessment methods may include: Practical workshops, seminars, lectures, technique classes, and one to one vocal lessons.
As the course progresses, assessments focus on independent, industry-focused tasks, which emphasise employability.
Feedback will be both formative (through ongoing feedback during class/rehearsal sessions) and summative (through written feedback following specific assessment points).
Features
The Musical Theatre team have a wide-range of industry experience performing across Europe and playing in the West End. We are also active researchers and practitioners writing about musical theatre and performance in a range of contexts and continuing to work within our specialist areas of practice. This knowledge, experience and understanding underpins and informs our teaching, enhancing your learning.
Musical Theatre offers additional technique and masterclasses to enable further development and skills acquisition. Previous sessions have included ensemble work, mindfulness, audition technique, commercial dance, and stage combat. We also work with visiting directors, choreographers, musical directors, and musical theatre companies to create exciting musical theatre performances.
 Association (IDTA) Level 4 Diploma in Dance Teaching. This qualification provides a basis for students to progress into dance teaching in a variety of contexts. It is delivered in three units by a qualified IDTA trainer, covering anatomy and physiology, teaching planning and delivery, and safe dance practice. Training sessions are extracurricular and usually take place in the evenings or at weekends.Fees apply.", 'Musical Theatre students are also able to apply for The Lincoln Company, the School of Creative Arts professional company of emerging performance makers. As the company-in-residence at Lincoln Arts Centre, each year they work to produce and tour high-quality, original performances to venues and festivals around the UK including Edinburgh Festival Fringe  the worlds largest platform for the arts.
Work and Perform in the Lincoln Arts Centre During Your Studies
Students can work and perform in the Lincoln Arts Centre, a 6 million, 450-seat theatre on campus. The Centre hosts a year-round programme of performances from students and national touring companies. Facilities include industry-standard studio and rehearsal spaces. Each student will receive event/performance credits which can be used against ticketed performances at the Lincoln Arts Centre.
Performance Opportunities
You may have regular opportunities to perform throughout your studies at the University of Lincoln
Work with Creatives
There may be opportunities to work with guest creatives to create performance work.
Develop Your Technique
You can develop your technique in weekly dance and one-to-one singing lessons.
Industry Memberships
The Musical Theatre programme is a member of theMusical Theatre Network an organisation dedicated to improving opportunities for new musical theatre in the UK. University of Lincoln Musical Theatre students are also eligible for student membership ofequity  the trade union for the performing arts and entertainment industries. Students can also join Spotlight, the UK's largest casting resource.
Placements
In the second year, Musical Theatre students can choose to undertake a placement or teaching module. These opportunities allow students to gain hands-on experience in an industry context or a school setting. Students are expected to source their own placement, but tutors can provide support during the process if required. Those who choose these options are expected to cover their travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
What Can I Do with aMusical Theatre Degree?
The BA (Hons) Musical Theatre degree aims to equip students with the confidence, knowledge, and industry skills to pursue a freelance career in the theatre or to form small-scale touring companies. Those completing the course are well-placed for roles across the wider cultural industries.
This course has given me the courage, power, and creative freedom to become the best version of myself
Becca Bustard
BA (Hons) Musical Theatre
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
For further advice on IELTS and the support available, please contact the International College by email at internationalcollege@lincoln.ac.uk.


For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/course/afyafyub/ 

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Interview
Successful applicants will be invited to attend an interview-audition, providing an opportunity to see our facilities and meet the course team.
By meeting you in person we get to know more about your musical interests, experiences, and aspirations, and you get to meet the Musical Theatre team that may soon be teaching you. This will give you an opportunity to experience how the course is taught, gaining experience of apractical and contextual session.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Students are expected to have appropriate clothing for class and we estimate that this may cost around 40 per year. 
s Edinburgh Festival Fringe performances there are additional costs. Students are currently required to contribute 150 towards the cost of attending the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and are responsible for their travel and general living costs. Accommodation costs in Edinburgh are covered by the University. An approximate break down of these costs includes 570 for travel, accommodation and a levy to participate, and an additional 200-400 to cover the cost of meals and entertainment during the trip. These costs are based on those incurred by individual students during the 2015 performances.", 'There may be additional costs associated with external visits.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Dance

BA (Hons) Drama and English

BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre and Performance

BA (Hons) Music

BA (Hons) Sound and Music Production

BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Stage Management



