Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
B710
Academic Year
Nurses perform a vital role in 21st Century healthcare, in both primary and secondary care settings, restoring and promoting health, supporting patients and their families, and profiling healthcare needs of communities.
s Test and Trace Centre. We're extremely proud of our students for their contribution and dedication.", "Our professionally accredited programmes enable you to become a registered nurse with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC). The programmes aim to prepare students to become fit for practice in accordance with the NMC's Standards for Pre-registration Nursing Education and to be eligible to register as a qualified nurse. Students are encouraged to become confident, critically analytical advocates of excellence in nursing practice within their respective specialisms.", 'The School of Health and Social Care works with employers to provide employees with the opportunity to study for an undergraduate BSc (Hons) Nursing degree through an apprenticeship route, funded by the Government and your employer.
The University of Lincoln also offers an 18-month top up degree on an apprenticeship or self-funded route. Find out more about these options online:  https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/shsc/apprenticeships/bscnursingapprenticeship/
Why Choose Lincoln

Accredited by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC)

Gain wider experience through a range of placements in a variety of settings

Specialist clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environments

 Theoretical and clinical elements centred on NHS values 

Explore the theory behind leading and managing nursing care

mental health module informed by feedback from students on career needs

How You Study
In your first year, you can focus on building a solid base of knowledge by understanding human development across the life span, the role of the nurse in contemporary society, principles of person-centred care, and concepts around health and illness such as digital literacy, public health, inequalities in health, and health legislation and how these impact on individual and community health.
In the second year, you are able to begin exploring what happens to health and wellbeing in the presence of disease, illness, or injury and interventions to help people recover from these illnesses. You will also be able to learn about the effects of changes in mental health and wellbeing and the role of research in nursing, enabling you to become confident and competent in using research to inform practice.
Across the third year, you can focus on making the transition to newly qualified nurse and prepare for aspects of you new role, such as managing, co-ordinating and leading care, supporting students in the workplace, staff development, and resources management. You will also be able to investigate a healthcare topic of your choice and produce a literature review.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
re assessed may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include written assignments, presentations, workbooks, and practical observations. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year.", 'Accredited Programme
Placements
s role. Please note, you'd be responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs relating to placements.", 'Placement expenses for travel, accommodation may be reimbursed by NHS Bursaries where, for example, the requirement exceeds that of attending university; requires transport out of normal operating hours; or requires additional accommodation to that of the usual term time location. These expenses may need to be covered initially by the student before any applicable reimbursement is received.
Our Facilities
To enhance your studies, you'll have access to the University's specialist clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environments. In particular, our mock ward hospital setting features realistic patient bays as well as clinical tools to provide a realistic NHS-standard facility to help you gain confidence in practice.
To enhance your studies, you'll have access to the University's specialist clinical suites in our Sarah Swift Building which simulate hospital and home environments. In particular, our mock ward hospital setting features realistic patient bays as well as clinical tools to provide a realistic NHS-standard facility to help you gain confidence in practice.
To enhance your studies, you'll have access to the University's specialist clinical suites which simulate hospital and home environments. In particular, our mock ward hospital setting features realistic patient bays as well as clinical tools to provide a realistic NHS-standard facility to help you gain confidence in practice.
BSc Nursing Apprenticeship (18-month Pathway)
The School of Health and Social Care works with employers to provide employees with the opportunity to study for an undergraduate BSc (Hons) Nursing degree through an apprenticeship route, funded by the Government and your employer. This route enables Accredited Prior Learning (APL) to be applied if evidence can be provided of 120 credits (Level 4) and 60 credits (Level 5), along with evidence of 1,150 practice hours. We would recommend that you discuss your individual requirements with us prior to application to ensure that this option is the right pathway for you. You can find out more about this apprenticeshiponline.
t know I had.", 'Peter Sutton
BSc Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)
What Can I Do with an Adult Nursing Degree?
Graduates have progressed to nursing roles in a range of diverse health and social care settings, from acute nursing to community care, or in education, research, and health management. Some have gone on to further study at postgraduate level.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above including English, Maths and Science, or equivalent qualifications, such as Functional Skills Level 2.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may consider work experience alongside academic qualifications and will review this on and individual basis.
Certificates of all previous qualifications will need to be provided before any offers are confirmed.

International
Other requirements include:
- EU and International students whose first language is not English will require English Language IELTS 6.5 with no less than 5.5 in each element. Country-specific requirements can be found at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ and https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
- If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses. More information can be found athttps://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
- Successful performance at an interview- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the nature of nursing in a public health context- Understanding of written material and can communicate clearly and accurately in written and spoken English- Satisfactory completion of Occupational Health Check- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS)
When you choose Nursing in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions. Here you must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs. 
We do not accept deferred applications for Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedic Science or Social Work. You must apply in the year you wish to start the programme.

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contextual Offers
Self-Funded Applications
To apply for this course as a self-funded student you will need to submit an application through our online application system using the button below.
Apply Now
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
From September 2023, pre-registration undergraduate and postgraduate healthcare students can apply for the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF).
re on your practice placement.- Students experiencing financial hardship (Exceptional Support Fund).", 'For more information and to see your eligibility, visit: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf
Please note, this government bursary is available to Home students only. Details on scholarships and bursaries available to Overseas and EU students can be found online: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/
Please note that International students will not be eligible for support for travel and accommodation.
Students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs relating to placements.
Placement expenses for travel, and accommodation may be reimbursed by NHS Bursaries where, for example, the requirement exceeds that of attending university; requires transport out of normal operating hours; or requires additional accommodation to that of the usual term time location. These expenses may need to be covered initially by the student before any applicable reimbursement is received.
The current rates for reimbursement can be found here: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf/travel-and-dual-accommodation-expenses
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography

BSc (Hons) Midwifery

BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Child)

BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health)

BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science



