Paramedic Science
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
B780
Academic Year
Paramedics work on the frontline of healthcare, looking after those in need and responding to a wide range of situations, from minor wounds and conditions to more serious, life-threatening injuries and illnesses.
The BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science course at Lincoln is designed to provide students with the theoretical knowledge, clinical skills, and practical work experience needed to provide high-quality, autonomous, and responsive healthcare associated with the professional practice of a paramedic.
From September 2020, new and returning degree-level nursing and midwifery students, and some students in allied health professions, will receive a payment of at least 5,000 a year which they will not need to pay back. This is in addition to any financial support they receive through the Student Loans Company.
Please note, this government bursary is available to Home students only. Details on scholarships and bursaries available to Overseas and EU students can be found online: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/
This course is now closed to new applications for September 2024 entry.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject area is ranked in the top 10 overall in the UK*
Take part in emergency simulation events
Gain practical experience during placements
Endorsed by the College of Paramedics
Register as a paramedic with the Health and Care Professions Council on completion
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 35 ranking institutions)
How You Study
 knowledge and skills to assess, diagnose, treat, and refer patients to the most appropriate care pathway.", 'The theoretical and clinical elements of the course are intended to cover all of the key areas of study outlined by the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) and College of Paramedics. These include physical sciences; life sciences; social, health, and behavioural sciences; clinical sciences; ethics and law; patient assessment; care delivery; leadership and practice education; evidence-based practice; health informatics; incident response management; and practice skills.
The course is offered over three academic years, each consisting of 45 weeks of study. Approximately 2,850 hours are spent on study and theory, while the remaining time is spent gaining practical, supervised experience with a variety of healthcare providers.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
You will be assessed both formally and informally throughout your degree to support your learning and development. Assessments will take place both within the University, and practice placement environments via a range of methods including lectures, seminars,  and clinical skills and simulation sessions. 
Some of the assessment will be led by your tutors but you will also be encouraged to engage in peer and self-assessment to help you develop the skills of reflection and evaluation which are essential for lifelong learning, and continued professional development.  Some of the assessments focus on theoretical knowledge and the application of theory, others on the practical performance of technical skills and application of patient management. Detailed guidance of what is expected, and the assessment criteria will be provided for each module.
Assessment Feedback
s policy on assessment feedback aims to ensure that academics will return in-course assessments to students promptly - usually within 15 working days after the submission date.", 'Methods of Assessment 
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as group and individual presentations, performances or observed structured clinical examinations (OSCEs); and written exams, such as formal examinations, in-class tests, portfolios, or projects. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. 
The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Endorsed Programme
Placements
Students are required to cover their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while on placement, however, may be eligible for theNHS Learning Support Fund.
In line with their preparation for a career as a paramedic, students should gain a full category C1 driving licence by the end of the programme at their own cost.
Simulation Days
To enhance your studies, you may have the opportunity to gain practical experience of real-life emergency scenarios by taking part in our simulation days, operating across a range of settings and locations across the university campus, working alongside other healthcare students at the University of Lincoln. 
The teaching styles of the lecturers and the amazingly equipped clinical suites are second to none, not to mention the fantastic simulation days, which are so realistic! I am proud to be a University of Lincoln student!
Shannon Kerry-Davies
BSc Paramedic Science student
Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points from a science related subject. (Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted)
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subject to include a Higher Level 5 in a science related subject. (Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted).
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent in a science related subject containing natural science components.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 40 points from 15 credits in a science related subject. (Biology, Human Biology, Chemistry, Sport Science, Psychology are accepted).
A combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTEC, EPQ etc.
This programme also requires a minimum of 3 GCSEs at grades 4 or above including English, Maths and Science, or equivalent qualifications, such as Functional Skills Level 2.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may consider work experience alongside academic qualifications and will review this on and individual basis.
Certificates of all previous qualifications will need to be provided before any offers are confirmed.
Other requirements include:
- This course is not open for overseas applicants. - In order to be eligible to apply, applicants born outside of the UK must have settled residential status.- If you are now settled in the UK, and do not have GCSE English, you will require English Language IELTS 6.5 with no less than 6.0 in each element: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/englishrequirements  - Successful performance at an interview.- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the nature of nursing in a public health context.- Understanding of written material and can communicate clearly and accurately in written and spoken English.- Satisfactory completion of Occupational Health Check.- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS).
When you choose Paramedic Science in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions. Here you must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs.
We do not accept deferred applications for Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedic Science or Social Work. You must apply in the year you wish to start the programme.
If your application is not successful, you may be offered the option of changing your application to either the BSc in Nursing (Adult) or BSc in Nursing (Mental Health). Any offers made would be subject to a successful interview (where an interview has not already taken place), spaces available, and meeting the course entry requirements.
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
From September 2023, pre-registration undergraduate and postgraduate healthcare students can apply for the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF).
re on your practice placement.- Students experiencing financial hardship (Exceptional Support Fund).", 'For more information and to see your eligibility, visit: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf
Please note, this government bursary is available to Home students only. Details on scholarships and bursaries available to Overseas and EU students can be found online: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/
Please note that International students will not be eligible for support for travel and accommodation.
Students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs relating to placements.
Placement expenses for travel, and accommodation may be reimbursed by NHS Bursaries where, for example, the requirement exceeds that of attending university; requires transport out of normal operating hours; or requires additional accommodation to that of the usual term time location. These expenses may need to be covered initially by the student before any applicable reimbursement is received.
The current rates for reimbursement can be found here: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf/travel-and-dual-accommodation-expenses
There is also a requirement to purchase certain apps and books to support you in your studies and as a paramedic.
Find out More at an Open Day
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Diagnostic Radiography
BSc (Hons) Midwifery
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Child)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health)
