Politics
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 Years
Part-time
6 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
L200
Academic Year
From US and Middle Eastern politics to the big political issues of the day in Britain, look beyond the headlines and explore concepts such as power, democracy, and justice with a degree in Politics.
s BA (Hons) Politics examines a wealth of domestic and global politics and specific issues surrounding political theory, nationalism, gender, migration, and international relations. You can explore the big issues facing the world, and study the social and theoretical contexts that underpin these developments. In doing so, you can develop analytical, evaluative, and critical-thinking skills, and learn how to collect and analyse data, and draft policy proposals.", 'Why Choose Lincoln

Options to study abroad for a year 

Hear from a range of expert guest speakers

Select from a range of optional modules

Opportunities to visit the UK parliament
How You Study
The first year offers a broad introduction to the institutions and structures of power in Britain, relationships between nations, and key concepts and thinkers in the social sciences. You can progress to consider the core ideas underpinning politics and closely linked disciplines, such as international relations. You can begin to apply these to the study of politics in a range of settings including the USA, the EU, the Middle East, and Asia.
The final year provides opportunities to explore the many ways in which those wielding power are held to account. You can examine contemporary political challenges such as migration, terrorism, state violence, inequality, gender, sexuality, and societies undergoing political transformation. A core module, Parliamentary Studies, is run in collaboration with the UK Parliament and co-delivered by Lincoln academics and parliamentary staff to give unique insight into their careers.
The programme aims to equip you with a deep and broad understanding of politics as a discipline, a concept, and an activity, and with a range of transferable research skills. Politics at Lincoln is designed to give you the opportunity to develop transferable skills including oral, written and visual presentation skills, policy analysis, statistical data processing, and public speaking.
In addition to lectures and seminars, staff use a range of media to deliver teaching materials including blogs and social media such as X. A number of the modules include weekly screenings of documentaries and movies designed to examine the discussion of politics in the media and popular culture. Our students can also benefit from the experience of our visiting professors, including Baroness Gillian Merron and former Principal Private Secretary to the Chief Whip, Sir Roy Stone CBE.
ll also have the opportunity to meet with module leaders in tutorial sessions. As well as directed study, you'll be expected to undertake independent learning utilising traditional library resources as well as a wide range of electronic resources.", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
This course features a diverse assessment regime which aims to provide you with an in-depth subject knowledge and a range of transferable skills. You can expect to be assessed on your oral and written presentation skills, your ability to collect and analyse data in a number of different forms, analytical skills including statistical analysis, and your ability to work on your own and as part of a team. Staff delivering this programme aim to provide supportive, detailed, personalised and consistent feedback throughout the duration of the course.
re assessed may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.", "The University of Lincoln's policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Study Abroad Year
re proud of our wide-ranging international connections and the unique opportunities those offer to our students. The Universitys partner institutions in the USA, Sweden, Belgium, Germany, and the Netherlands offer you the chance to study abroad during the third year of study, before returning to Lincoln for the final year. The initiative enables you to experience your subject from a different perspective and to explore different societies and cultures. Spaces are limited and are allocated competitively, subject to academic criteria. During the year abroad, you won't need to pay a tuition fee to either the University of Lincoln or host university, but you'll be responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs. Where applicable, you'd also need to cover visa costs.", 'Facilities
s Great Central Warehouse Library, which is home to more than 260,000 printed books and approximately 750,000 electronic books and journals, alongside databases and specialist collections. The Library has a range of different spaces for shared and individual learning.", 'What Can I Do with a Politics Degree?
Graduates have gone on to positions across the public sector, including central and local government, policy development within parliament, lobbying or research with think tanks, and the charity and not-for-profit sectors. A number have continued on to postgraduate study or professional training.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications. 
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/. 
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/


If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) International Relations

BA (Hons) International Relations and Politics

BA (Hons) Philosophy



