Product Design
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years with Foundation Year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
W200
Academic Years
Product Design is a career focused on tackling the social and environmental challenges facing our modern world - bringing to life the next generation of products and services. 
ll develop an understanding of product design based on creative materials and methodologies, technical knowledge, and critical thinking, supported by an understanding of human behaviour that puts the user at the heart of your idea. Working sustainably and responsibly with traditional and emerging technologies, you'll discover how to bring your ideas to life using our digital suite of 3D scanners and printers and a range of CNC machines. You'll also have the chance to pitch ideas to professional brands and businesses, enter international design competitions, and tailor your portfolio to fit your dream design career.", 'This programme is also available with an Arts Foundation Year, which can provide an alternative route of entry onto the full degree programme. Find out more at https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject ranked 1st overall in the UK*
Digital suite of 3D scanners and printers 
Optional study trips to London and New York 
Pitch ideas to businesses and brands 
Take part in international student design competitions 
Professional network of alumni 
*Guardian University Guide 2024
How You Study
In the first year, students have the opportunity to develop their understanding of product design based on technical skills acquisition - from nurturing an idea to following a client brief and producing prototypes in 3D form.
The second-year builds on these foundational skills and expands into the exciting areas of sensory design, visual language, and cultures to help get a more in-depth view on the subject. 
In the final year of the degree, students are engaged in independent projects alongside a dissertation on a design topic of their choice culminating in an end-of-year exhibition. 
The programme has a vibrant and collegiate studio culture, where contact time can be in workshops, Mac and PC suites, practical sessions, seminars, or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year. Tutorial sessions and project supervision can take the form of one-to-one engagement or small group sessions. Some courses offer the opportunity to take part in external visits and fieldwork.
Studio practice is a key element of this course, and students will have the opportunity to spend a lot time in a creative studio environment. Teaching and learning experiences may include workshop activities, peer groups, lectures, workshops, seminars, and group tutorials. Students can also benefit from one-to-one surgeries, portfolio reviews, and self-initiated work experience.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
As this course aims to develop a wide range of practical and intellectual skills, assessment is varied and includes presentations, written projects, individual and group practical work, projects, and portfolios, in addition to academic essays. There are no formal end-of-year examinations. Throughout the degree, students are assessed through their production of practical and written work.
Industry Links
s role in business and commerce. We are involved with a number of partner companies who have ongoing internship and employment opportunities.  ", 'Facilities
The University of Lincoln has a comprehensive range of facilities designed to provide a supportive environment for creative practitioners. Students have regular access to workshops, labs, studios, and industry-standard equipment, as well as highly knowledgeable technicians. This environment can help students to develop their knowledge and skills, and complements our purpose-built design studios. Explore our facilities here.
Student Design Awards
Lincoln School of Design students have a long history of winning and being shortlisted for international and national student design competitions, and the last few years have been no exception.
The University of Lincoln and the Product Design team hold a special place in my heart. The community was supportive and equipped me with the tools to start my design career.
Hannah Davis
BA (Hons) Product Design
What Can I Do with a Product Design Degree?
Career opportunities exist in design consultancies and agencies, as well as in-house design departments. Some of our most recent graduates have progressed to roles including Packaging and Trims Designer at Joules, Assistant Design Manager at Playscheme, Junior Designer at GES  Global Experience Specialists, Senior Furniture Designer at Next, Design Accounts Manager at The Future Factory, Designer at Dunelm, and 3D and RP Designer at Hotter Shoes. Some become freelance designers, while others have established their own design consultancies, with the help of the Universitys business incubation unit, Sparkhouse.Graduate Joep Peters currently works as 3D Generalist at Peek Creative Studios in the Netherlands. Since graduating he has worked on films including Pacific Rim Uprising, Assassins Creed, The Martian, Guardians of the Galaxy, Prometheus, and Superman: Man of Steel.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Along with the software a basic materials package will be provided, including some essentials such as paper and pencils but will be required to cover additional costs specific to the study of product design. These typically include costs for rapid prototyping, art materials, printing, exhibitions, and creating a final collection for the third years show. 
Level 1 and 2 students report typically spending 200-300 per year on course materials and equipment. Level 3-Final year expenditure can be greater due to the production of a final garment collection and portfolio. 
It should be noted that successful work is not necessarily dependent on high costs but on the level of originality, innovation, creativity, and resourcefulness. It is however expected that students on the programme will have sufficient funding to support the costs of their studies without hindrance.
Students on this course have the option to undertake external visits, which can range in cost from 300 to 1,000, dependant on the destination. The participation in these trips will have no impact upon your final award and savings and contribution plans are put in place for these.
Students are also invited to participate in an optional graduate exhibition event and to make a 200 (approx) contribution, which is financially supported by both the programme and by the Lincoln School of Design. Contributions help students to attend a graduate event with designers, employers, and manufacturers. The School and programme make a major contribution to the stand, production, prototyping, materials, and image costs.
Students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs while undertaking a work experience or an internship.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Architecture
BA (Hons) Graphic Design
BA (Hons) Illustration
BA (Hons) Interior Architecture and Design
