Psychology with Forensic Psychology
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 Years
Part-time
6 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C890
Academic Years
Psychology brings together the scientific study of behaviour, the mind, and neurophysiological functioning in an attempt to understand what makes us human, and why we think the way we do. The BSc (Hons) Psychology with Forensic Psychology degree at Lincoln provides you with an opportunity to gain an understanding of the core concepts and practices in psychology in general, along with a level of specialised knowledge in forensic psychology.
The course aims to offer a realistic insight into the day-to-day work of a forensic psychologist. Within forensic-related modules, students can gain an understanding of the motives, mind-sets, and behaviours of people who commit various crimes, as well as the assessment and treatment of offence-related risk factors.
Students can also study the processes within the criminal justice system, including courts and post-conviction forensic settings, such as prisons. Teaching on the course includes content from both registered forensic psychologists and expert researchers within the field of forensic psychology.
Why Choose Lincoln
Accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS)
Guest lectures from industry professionals
Attend trips, talks, and social activities through the student-led Psychology Society
A range of optional modules
Specialist facilities including sleep, EEG, and psychophysiology labs
International study and work experience options
How You Study
You will have the opportunity to learn through a combination of interactive, lecture-based teaching, small group seminars, practical workshops and tutorials. The course aims to enable you to develop and apply your knowledge of psychology to forensic related areas.
Depending on the level and topic of content, teaching can be delivered in large lectures, small seminars, workshops, computer-based laboratory sessions, and tutorials. Most modules involve two hours a week of timetabled teaching, with independent study expected outside of these hours.
There are dedicated Psychology Labs for student projects as well as the research labs that you may use as part of your final year research project. 
Course materials are posted to an online virtual learning environment to supplement face to face teaching and to support onsite and remote study.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The aims of the module assessments are to provide a measure of the development and attainment of course outcomes, including the attainment of high-level intellectual skills such as critical analysis, and evaluation.
Accordingly, the nature of assessment varies across the three levels of the course. Assessments at levels one and two are designed to focus on the acquisition and understanding of knowledge and skills. In contrast, level three assessments aim to place far greater emphasis on the ability to apply, analyse, and evaluate knowledge.
Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, research reports, research diaries, research or clinical proposals, or dissertations; practical exams, such as oral and poster presentations, performances or observations; and written exams (including essay-based exams), such as formal examinations or in-class tests (including multiple-choice tests and short-answer questions).
BPS Accreditation
The course is accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS) as conferring eligibility for the Graduate Basis for Chartered membership (GBC) the first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist. The BPS is the main professional body representing psychology and psychologists in the UK.
International Study and Work Experience
ll be able to select one of the following options:", 'International Study
This option provides an opportunity to explore study in a new overseas culture and environment at one of the University's approved partner institutions. Choosing this option leads to (International Study) being added to your award title upon successful completion of the course. You can find out more on our Global Opportunities webpage.
Work Experience
This option offers the opportunity to enhance your personal and professional development by gaining experience in a realworkplace setting, which could help develop the skills relevant to future employment or further study. Selecting this option leads to (Work Experience) being added to your award title upon successful completion of the course.
Both options aim to enhance your future employment opportunities and offer the chance to gain an understanding of the field in real-world settings. Please note, you will need to cover the costs associated with these year-long study options, including accommodation, travel expenses, and general living costs.
Extracurricular Activities
New students can join groups within the school including those that support LGBTQIA+, disability, BAME, mature students, commuters, and carers.u202fStudents can also join DigiPsych, our on-line magazine run for students by students in the School of Psychology. DigiPsych publishes anything that may be of interest to psychology students including reviews of psychological and non-psychological articles, stories, and opinion pieces.
Moreover, we have a weekly programme of guest lecturers invited from all over the world. Previous speakers for our special Lincoln International Seminars include Elizabeth Loftus. In addition to our work experience opportunities, many modules include employer presentations and activities. Students can also meet employers at our annual Psychology Works careers fair.u202f
Students are also encouraged to network with our alumni.u202f We have approximately 100 graduates from Psychology, representing a variety of professional roles, offering networking, and mentoring to current students.u202f
Research
Our School aims to produce critical thinkers and independent researchers who are able to tackle psychological problems and issues using a systematic, critical, and analytical approach.
As part of this process, first year students undertake training in areas important to psychological research, such as using statistics software. In the second year, students may be able to utilise these skills by working alongside an academic supervisor to conduct an original research project. This culminates with students being able to undertake a substantial research study of their own for the dissertation component of their degree.
In addition to the taught components of research, students are encouraged to participate in the research culture of the School more broadly, with the opportunity to be involved as volunteers in research activities, such as our Summer Scientist programme, and to compete for paid studentships offered by the University of Lincoln and the British Psychological Society to conduct further research over the summer, typically in between the second and third year of the course.
We also have a number of active research groups within the School. These are conducting exciting research into areas such as developmental, cognitive, social, forensic, and psychological health within the School, and you can read more on our Research webpage. Current research questions being explored by our staff and students include exploring prison and probationary work, courtroom practices, and understanding criminal behaviour.
Research Laboratories and Facilities
The University has invested 19 million in the Sarah Swift Building, a dedicated facility forthe School of Psychology. Our range of specialist researchlaboratoriesallow you to gain practical experience. You will also have access to ICT suites and technical staff who can offer support in the design and execution of experiments and assistance with specialist software.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) Laboratory
The EEG lab allows our researchers to identify activation patterns in the cerebrum, in response to stimuli, to find out when and which parts of the brain respond to these. 
Eye-tracking Laboratory
Research in this lab investigates how visual cognition is shaped and influenced by our environment, experience and knowledge. Current research is examining how visual cues are processed in the brain.
Lincoln Infant and Child Development Laboratory
Research here categorises conceptual development including speech perception, language acquisition - particularly word learning and grammar. 
Molecular Laboratory
The Molecular laboratory houses a contained wet lab for chemical and biological analyses on site and stores samples from participants before, during, and after processing and analysis.
Sleep Laboratory
This dedicated facility conducts full polysomnography, actigraphy, home sleep monitoring, and computerised behavioural testing in the areas of neuroscience, sleep, and wellbeing.
Lincoln provided me with the best four years of my life. The staff were supportive, knowledgeable, and always had time for me. They helped shape and develop my skills so that I was prepared for my career in psychology. Even now after graduating, they still have time for me.
Verity Harris
BSc (Hons) Forensic Psychology
What Can I Do with a Psychology with Forensic Psychology Degree?
This programme provides Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership of the British Psychological Society (BPS). As a graduate from this degree, you will be well-placed to consider further professional training in psychology This course is designed for those considering a career in forensic settings such as the police, prison, and probation services, or secure health service settings.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths or Statistics. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications.
In addition to meeting the academic requirements, overseas students will also be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. Please visit our English language requirements page for a full list of the English qualifications we accept. https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
Can we help? The University of Lincoln offer a dedicated support service for overseas students. If you have any questions about your qualifications, or would like assistance in submitting your application, please contact our https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/contactus/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
T Level:  Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma:  45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 29 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English and Maths or Statistics. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Psychology
BSc (Hons) Psychology (Sport and Exercise Psychology)
BSc (Hons) Psychology with Mental Health 
