Diagnostic Radiography
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Validation
UCAS Code
B821
Academic Year
Diagnostic Radiography is the practice of using various forms of radiation to produce high-quality images which aid in the diagnosis and treatment of injury or disease. This course aims to ensure that upon completion graduates are eligible to apply for registration as a Diagnostic Radiographer with the Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC), are well positioned to gain employment in a professional role, and are able to register as a full member of the Society of Radiographers.
The course is designed to develop skills specific to diagnostic radiography as well as wider transferable healthcare and employability skills.  Students can apply theoretical knowledge to clinical practice, while undertaking a variety of modules alongside practice placement experience.  During the programme, students can learn from their peer group, students from other health professions at the University, interprofessional learning events, academic lecturers, clinical expert health professionals, and service users.
Why Choose Lincoln
Register with the HCPC to practice upon completion
Integration of theory with practice through a blended learning approach
Learn from qualified diagnostic radiographers throughout the course
Final-year optional placements, including study abroad opportunities
Virtual Reality teaching suite
How You Study
This programme has been designed so that there is a clear integration of theory and practice, made possible by the continuity of teaching alongside placement learning throughout the year.  This enables students to practice the techniques and apply the knowledge they develop from lectures, seminars, and group work to the practice of diagnostic radiography.
You will be based at one of our partner radiology practice placement providers for the duration of the programme, as well as having opportunities to experience other clinical settings through insight visits in all three years, in addition to the option of undertaking an optional placement in the final year. 
Modules are integrated and have themes that run through all three years, such as professional practice, radiographic clinical practice, science and instrumentation, and research in health care.  The knowledge and skills taught within the module reflect those required of a diagnostic radiographer, and of the wider requirements of a health care professional.
Topics include anatomy, physiology, and pathophysiology with application to medical imaging; normal and abnormal image interpretation in a range of imaging modalities; scientific principles of ionising radiation, including effects on the human body and safety to minimise risk, image formation and production; scientific principles and instrumentation of a range of imaging modalities; radiographic techniques to undertake examinations in a range of imaging modalities and clinical environments; professionalism and collaborative team working in the multi-disciplinary setting; leadership and followership required to ensure a safe and quality service; evaluating, understanding, and generating evidence for primary research and service transformation; and health promotion and protection.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Students will be assessed using formative and summative assignment tasks.  Computer-based assessments are used across a range of modules, allowing the assessment of a breadth of knowledge.  Written assignments and case studies are used to assess the depth of learning and application of new knowledge to practice. 
An electronic poster assessment in the second year provides you with the opportunity for the development of skills in a different mode of professional communication.  In addition, a project presentation undertaken in the final year aims to further enhances the range of different modes of professional communication, developing your wider employability skills. 
The medical imaging practice modules will assess your practical and professional competence in the clinical department, evidenced in an electronic portfolio, as well as a viva assessment at the end of the year that will assess your knowledge across the spectrum of diagnostic radiography practice.
Guest Speakers
Throughout the programme, students can hear from guest speakers including Radiologists, Consultant Radiographers, advanced practitioners, service users and carers, and representatives from the Society of Radiographers.
Placements
Students will be assigned to a specific placement provider for the duration of the course to promote a sense of belonging to the training department and to foster strong affiliations. The placement site could be located in North Lincolnshire, Central Lincolnshire, or South Lincolnshire, and you will be required to travel to your placement site.
Students will be allocated to a hub department for their placements with opportunity to spend time across other sites to ensure that all aspects of Diagnostic Radiography are experienced during their studies. The final year of the programme enables you to undertake an optional placement, which could be an international placement. Please note that while undertaking placements, students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs.
Specialist Equipment and Local Links
The University has invested heavily in specialist technology-enhanced simulation to support clinical learning as well as developing robust clinical links to secure training lists at one of the local Community Diagnostic Centres.
What Can I Do with a Diagnostic Radiography Degree?
Employability is a key consideration of the course. We therefore focus on workplace learning, service user interactions both in practice and in the University, and interprofessional learning events, which provide valuable and challenging learning opportunities to enhance employability.
A graduate Diagnostic Radiographer is required to have a range of skills above and beyond safe imaging practice such as leadership and mentorship. You will be required to have a greater understanding of progression opportunities into different imaging modalities, advanced, and consultant practice. Employability skills are embedded into the course facilitating exploration of career pathways within diagnostic radiography, as well as the wider healthcare sector such as management, education, and research. Simulated placement weeks will enable you to experience a variety of career options and develop wider skills in addition to radiographic practice.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
112 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications to include 40 points in Biology, Chemistry, or Physics.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a a Higher Level grade 5 in Biology, Chemistry or Physics.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit in Applied Science, Health Science, or Health Studies.
T Level: Merit in Health Science or Science.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 112 UCAS Tariff points in Health Studies, Health Science, Nursing, Radiography, or another science-based course.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above including English, Maths and Science, or equivalent qualifications, such as Functional Skills Level 2.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may consider work experience alongside academic qualifications and will review this on and individual basis
Certificates of all previous qualifications will need to be provided before any offers are confirmed.
Other requirements include:
- This course is not open for overseas applicants.- In order to be eligible to apply, applicants born outside of the UK must have settled residential status.- If you are now settled in the UK, and do not have GCSE English, you will require English Language IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each element: http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/englishrequirements- Successful performance at an interview.- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the nature of nursing in a public health context.- Understanding of written material and can communicate clearly and accurately in written and spoken English.- Satisfactory completion of Occupational Health Check.- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS).- Experience of interacting with the public not necessarily in a care setting. This can be achieved as part of a programme of study, voluntary or paid work. Please include in the personal statement a reflection of your learning from these experiences and apply them to the skills required of a diagnostic radiographer.
When you choose Diagnostic Radiography in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions. Here you must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs. 
We do not accept deferred applications for Diagnostic Radiography, Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedic Science, or Social Work. You must apply in the year you wish to start the programme.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
From September 2023, pre-registration undergraduate and postgraduate healthcare students can apply for the NHS Learning Support Fund (LSF).
re on your practice placement.- Students experiencing financial hardship (Exceptional Support Fund).", 'For more information and to see your eligibility, visit: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf
Please note, this government bursary is available to Home students only. Details on scholarships and bursaries available to Overseas and EU students can be found online: https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/scholarshipsandbursaries/
Please note that International students will not be eligible for support for travel and accommodation.
Diagnostic Radiography is also identified as a specialist subject, which means you are eligible to apply for an additional payment each academic year. You need to apply for the Training Grant (and Specialist Subject Payment) each academic year.  You are not required to re-pay this grant on completion of the programme.
Students are responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and general living costs relating to placements.
Placement expenses for travel, and accommodation may be reimbursed by NHS Bursaries where, for example, the requirement exceeds that of attending university; requires transport out of normal operating hours; or requires additional accommodation to that of the usual term time location. These expenses may need to be covered initially by the student before any applicable reimbursement is received.
The current rates for reimbursement can be found here: https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/nhs-learning-support-fund-lsf/travel-and-dual-accommodation-expenses
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Midwifery
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Child)
BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health)
BSc (Hons) Paramedic Science
