Physical Education and Sport
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C601
Academic Years
Physical education is an important vehicle for improving health, behaviour, sports participation, and performance, and as such continues to have political and educational significance across the UK.
s BSc (Hons) Physical Education and Sport degree is a multi-disciplinary programme. It utilises current research, policy, and practice in order to develop the knowledge, skills, and understanding relevant to the physical education and sport sector.", 'The course has been designed for those who have a desire to work with young people in schools or youth sport settings, and engagement in real-world activities is integral to the programme. You can develop your teaching abilities, knowledge, and experience of curriculum activities, while making the most of opportunities to gain experience through practical sessions and placements in schools.
Why Choose Lincoln
Conduct research alongside our academic team
Dedicated physical education laboratories and practical spaces
Partnered with Lincoln City FC and a range of external partners
Learn from our expert academic team members
How You Study
ll also be encouraged to develop key transferable skills.", 'During the second and third years, you can choose from a range of optional modules and tailor your learning to personal interests and career aspirations.
Teaching is delivered in a variety of ways including lectures, seminars, practical sessions, lab sessions, workshops, and tutorials. Throughout the course you may have opportunities to hear from guest speakers. Previous speakers have included Lincoln Seated Volleyball Club, Lincoln Invictus Club;  and School Games Organisers, Lincolnshire.
Teaching is delivered in a variety of ways including lectures, seminars, practical sessions, lab sessions, workshops, and tutorials. Throughout the course you may have opportunities to hear from guest speakers. Previous speakers have included Lincoln Seated Volleyball Club, Lincoln Invictus Club; and School Games Organisers, Lincolnshire.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Placements
You can attend school-based placements across all three years of the course. In the first year, you will complete ten hours in a primary school setting supporting physical education and sport in lessons or through extra-curricular activities. In years 2 and 3 you can complete six-eight whole day placements in secondary schools where you will embed yourself in the day-to-day life of a physical education department helping to support and teach lessons. All placements are arranged locally by the University. Placements are usually carried out in pairs. Any essential travel costs will be reimbursed.
You will need to have an enhanced DBS certificate which will be arranged and funded through the University. This is a compulsory requirement to enable you to work with children. You will also undergo safeguarding training before starting and placements in a 5-18 setting.
The theoretical and practical elements of the course have given me an insight into what it is like to work within a school setting.
Daniel Watson
Physical Education and Sports Student
How you are assessed
ll be assessed through a range of methods which are dependent upon whether the module is practical, theoretical, contextual or vocational. This may include presentations, critical reflections, portfolios, exams, practical assessment within schools and a research project.", "The University of Lincoln's policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'How you are assessed
ll be assessed through a range of methods which are dependent upon whether the module is practical, theoretical, contextual or vocational. This may include presentations, critical reflections, portfolios, exams, practical assessment within schools and a research project.", "The University of Lincoln's policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Partnered with Lincoln City Football Club
Our ongoing partnership with Lincoln City FC offers you opportunities to undertake work placement or intern opportunities, as well as providing a potential pathway for full-time employment after you graduate. Many Lincoln graduates are employed within the organisation in roles spanning coaching, physiotherapy, sports science, and performance analysis.
Research
ll also be able to apply theory to practical settings, including in school placements.", 'Facilities
Our Human Performance Centre offers excellent facilities to meet your academic needs. We have dedicated practical and teaching spaces including physiology laboratories, a psychology laboratory, consultation suites, and specific practical spaces to support exercise instruction and referral work.
Facilities
CIMSPA Endorsement
s commitment to ensuring students' teaching and learning is aligned to industry standards. For a student to register with CIMSPA and arrange certification for professional standards gained during this degree, a small administration charge would be required.", 'What Can I Do with a Physical Education and Sport Degree?
Previous students have successfully progressed on to school-centred teacher training or PGCEs to become PE teachers and opportunities are available both in Lincoln and throughout the UK. Alternatively, you may choose to progressto Masters programmes in education, enter the Armed Forces, or work in sport development.
This course is perfect for anyone interested in teaching physical education. It combines both practical and theoretical skills which are needed to be successful in the physical education world.
Madeline Bogosian
Physical Education and Sport student
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least five GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and a Science or sport related subject. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of five at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and a Science or sport related subject. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy
BSc (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching
BSc (Hons) Strength and Conditioning in Sport
