Strength and Conditioning in Sport
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C603
Academic Years
Strength and Conditioning in Sport brings together the application of sports and exercise science to maximise the physical preparation of athletes.
This degree offers students the opportunity to develop knowledge, understanding, and practical skills in applied strength and conditioning, physiology, biomechanics, and nutrition.
s Strength and Conditioning Clinic. A number of professional qualifications are integrated into the curriculum that students may choose to undertake alongside their degree at an additional cost. These include Gym Instruction, Personal Training, and Exercise Referral.", 'Strength and Conditioning in Sport brings together the application of sports and exercise science to maximise the physical preparation of athletes.
s Strength and Conditioning Clinic. A number of professional qualifications are integrated into the curriculum that students may choose to undertake alongside their degree at an additional cost. These include Gym Instruction, Personal Training, and Exercise Referral.", 'Why Choose Lincoln
IUSCA accredited programme
Undertake scientific sport research in specialist facilities
Partnered with Lincoln City FC and a range of external partners
Learn from our expert academic team members
How You Study
 critical understanding of the knowledge and practical competencies required by strength and conditioning professionals. Key concepts are presented over the three years, with deepening layers of complexity.", 'Applied assessments and work placements provide opportunities for students to experience real-life work scenarios, and are designed to develop the skills needed to succeed in a range of sports-related careers.
Modules can include Foundations in Strength and Conditioning; Fundamentals of Human Physiology; Applied Exercise Physiology; Nutrition for Health and Performance; Advanced Strength and Conditioning; and Advanced Biomechanical Analysis.
IUSCA Accreditation
This programme is accredited by the International Universities Strength and Conditioning Association (IUSCA). The IUSCA has been developed to support the growing area of strength and conditioning in the university sector across the world. 
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that may be used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests.
CIMSPA Endorsement
s commitment to ensuring students' teaching and learning is aligned to industry standards. For a student to register with CIMSPA and arrange certification for professional standards gained during this degree, a small administration charge would be required. ", 'NSCA Recognition
This course is also recognised by the National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA), the largest global body in strength and conditioning.
Placements
ll undertake a mandatory 10-week work placement providing strength and conditioning support to athletes. You'll be encouraged to arrange a placement independently, and tutors can provide support where needed. You will also be responsible for associated costs of placements, including accommodation, travel, and general living costs.", 'The staff invested a significant amount of time developing my coaching practice, providing an excellent platform in which to develop and use my practical skills in my current role as a full-time tennis coach.
Chris Stock
BSc (Hons) Sport Development and Coaching
Industry Partners and WorkExperience
This course has strong links with a number of external partners, including British Orienteering, British Canoeing, Active Lincolnshire, Lincoln City Football Club, and Lincolnshire Cricket. Local partnerships with schools, community groups, and sports clubs provide additional opportunities for you to engage in relevant work experience.
Partnered with Lincoln City Football Club
Our ongoing partnership with Lincoln City FC offers you opportunities to undertake work placement or internship opportunities, as well as providing a potential pathway for full-time employment after you graduate. Many Lincoln graduates are employed within the organisation in roles spanning coaching, physiotherapy, sports science, and performance analysis.
Facilities
Our Human Performance Centre offers dedicated practical and teaching spaces including physiology laboratories, a psychology laboratory, consultation suites, and specific practical spaces to support exercise instruction and referral work. Our experienced staff have academic and professional expertise in a range of areas including sport and exercise physiology, sports biomechanics, sports psychology, coach education, and sports nutrition. High-profile sports organisations have used the facilities, including British Canoeing and British Ice Skating. 
What Can I Do with a Strength and Conditioning in Sport Degree?
Graduates can progress to a range of careers in areas such as sport development, coaching, and fitness instruction, and graduate-level employment in the uniformed services. Some choose to go on to postgraduate study or teaching.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least five GCSEs at grade 4  or above, which must include English, Maths and a Science or sport related subject. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of five at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and a Science or sport related subject. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Physical Education and Sport
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Science
BSc (Hons) Sport and Exercise Therapy
BSc (Hons) Strength and Conditioning in Sport
