Sociology
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3-4 Years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
52L8
Academic Year
s  most marginalised people. ", "Lincoln's BA (Hons) Sociology degree aims to prepare students with the knowledge, conceptual insights, and  methodological skills so needed in our era of multiple social and political crises. You'll be encouraged to examine the fabric of different societies, the group dynamics of belonging and exclusion, and the workings of political structures. This includes - among a wide range of topics covered - studying the changing nature and role of the family unit; how technological advances have transformed the way we interact; what subcultures can teach us about mainstream society; how 'the global' and 'the local' jointly shape everyday lives in the twenty-first Century; how inequalities are experienced and differences created. ", "The curriculum draws on the expertise of staff from across Lincoln's School of Social and Political Sciences, whose research actively informs contemporary academic and policy debates.", 'Why Choose Lincoln
Options to study abroad for a year at partner institutions
Undertake voluntary placements in local councils
Choose from a range of optional modules
Take part in voluntary and mentoring work
How You Study
The first year covers key concepts and central themes in the social sciences, whilst also introducing you to the work of influential sociological thinkers. Alongside this theoretical grounding, you can develop your understanding of the value and particularities of different methodologies underpinning academic research in the social sciences.  Our core modules in the first year are: Sociological Imagination; Social Issues and Social Justice; Applying Research; and Key Social Science Concepts.
In the second year, you can refine your research skills and data analysis techniques further and engage with the sociological canon in more depth, explore important areas of research such as the sociological study of cities, or of inter-generational dynamics and politics. At the same time, you can shape your learning around your own interests by choosing from a range of optional modules. 
Our third-year elective modules give you a wide choice of topics to explore from a variety of distinctly sociological perspectives. You can also study an area of your own choice and will receive support from a member of the academic team, as well as pursuing your own independent research project to draw on the thematic and conceptual expertise and methodological skills acquired during your studies. 
ll be taught through a range of different pedagogical methods, including lectures, workshops, tutorials and seminars. The assessments vary from theoretical essays and critical paper reviews to policy briefs, portfolios and podcasts, which aim to provide our students with both theoretical and practical sociological skills. You will also be assigned their own personal tutor to assist in your studies.", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
Assessments currently include coursework, practical exams, and written exams.
s assessed using a range of methods across the three levels and may include, for example, group-based and individual research projects, group and individual presentations, poster presentations, podcasts, reports, as well as traditional essay and report writing, and examinations.", "The University of Lincoln's policy is to ensure that staff return assessments to students promptly.", 'Placements
ll have the option to undertake voluntary, competitive work placements with a local council, providing the chance to gain experience of a professional policy environment. All travel, accommodation, and general living expenses associated with the placement will need to be covered by you. Placements can range from a few weeks to a full year if you choose to undertake an optional sandwich year in industry (where available). You'll be encouraged to obtain placements in industry independently. Tutors may provide support and advice if required.", 'Study Abroad Year
re proud of our wide-ranging international connections and the unique opportunities those offer to our students. The Universitys partner institutions in the USA, Sweden, Belgium, Germany, and the Netherlands offer you the chance to study abroad during the third year of study, before returning to Lincoln for the final year. The initiative enables you to experience your subject from a different perspective and to explore different societies and cultures. Spaces are limited and are allocated competitively, subject to academic criteria. During the year abroad, you won't need to pay a tuition fee to either the University of Lincoln or host university, but you'll be responsible for travel, accommodation, and general living costs. Where applicable, you'd also need to cover visa costs.", 'Field Trips
The optional Social Engagement module allows you to undertake a field trip that encourages you to undertake one or more external activities relevant to the course to critically reflect on the experience, how it relates to wider institutional structures, and your personal development. This may involve undertaking voluntary work or mentoring within a service-providing organisation.
All travel, accommodation, and general living expenses associated with the experience will need to be covered by your and the experience is required to consist of a minimum of 30 hours.
Sociology at the University of Lincoln provides the best insight into the organisation of our world and why we interact in the ways we do.
Elliot Kennedy
BA (Hons) Sociology
Facilities
s Great Central Warehouse Library, which is home to more than 260,000 printed books and approximately 750,000 electronic books and journals, alongside databases and specialist collections. The Library has a range of different spaces for shared and individual learning.", 'What Can I Do with a Sociology Degree?
Sociology students develop a very wide range of transferable skills relevant to a range of diverse private and public employment sectors, including local and national governments, education, research, and the media. You can develop skills that are relevant to a range of employment sectors, including local and national government, education, research, and the media. Some graduates may choose to pursue careers in policy development, social work, or campaigning, while others may opt to study further at postgraduate level.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent qualifications.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages  for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/.
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BA (Hons) Criminology
BA (Hons) Criminology and Sociology
BA (Hons) Social Policy
LLB (Hons) Law
LLB (Hons) Law and Criminology
