Social Work Practice
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
L501
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
L501
Academic Years
This full-time, 3-year BSc Social Work Practice offers students a flexible route to qualification as a social worker and will be delivered via a blended learning method of face-to-face and online teaching.
The first year of study is largely preparatory and no practice placements are undertaken.  As the course progresses, complex concepts will be explored alongside developing skills in critical reflection and analysis.  
Placements will commence during your second year of study with a 70-day placement, enhanced by a 100-day placement in the final year.  Both placements are full-time and will require full-time attendance. The regulating body for social workers, Social Work England, require one of the placements to be undertaken in a statutory setting. Please note, students are responsible for covering the cost of placement including transport, accommodation, and general living expenses.
During both placements, students will be supervised by a Practice Educator who is a qualified social worker and responsible for assessment of the student whilst on placement.  Please note that students are required to pass both placements in order to successfully qualify as a social worker.
This full-time, 3-year BSc Social Work Practice offers students a flexible route to qualification as a social worker and will be delivered via a blended learning method of face-to-face and online teaching.
The first year of study is largely preparatory and no practice placements are undertaken.  As the course progresses, complex concepts will be explored alongside developing skills in critical reflection and analysis.  
Placements will commence during your second year of study with a 70-day placement, enhanced by a 100-day placement in the final year.  Both placements are full-time and will require full-time attendance. The regulating body for social workers, Social Work England, require one of the placements to be undertaken in a statutory setting. Please note, students are responsible for covering the cost of placement including transport, accommodation, and general living expenses.
During both placements, students will be supervised by a Practice Educator who is a qualified social worker and responsible for assessment of the student whilst on placement.  Please note that students are required to pass both placements in order to successfully qualify as a social worker.
Why Choose Lincoln

Blended learning with face-to-face and online study

Offers a flexible route to qualification as a social worker

Gain practical experience with placements

Hear from guest speakers including practitioners and carers

How You Study
ll be able to put theory into practice as all academic teaching is geared towards students' understanding, knowledge, and confidence in practice.", "You'll benefit from a blended learning approaching on this course, with most of the teaching delivered virtually, and including groupwork and interactive working. There will also be opportunities for face-to-face learning through days in placement, practice-based skills teaching, and placement recall days.", 'How You Study
ll be able to put theory into practice as all academic teaching is geared towards students' understanding, knowledge, and confidence in practice.", "You'll benefit from a blended learning approaching on this course, with most of the teaching delivered virtually, and including groupwork and interactive working. There will also be opportunities for face-to-face learning through days in placement, practice-based skills teaching, and placement recall days.", 'How you are assessed
ll be assessed in a variety of ways including written essays, presentations, and a small number of exams.", 'How you are assessed
ll be assessed in a variety of ways including written essays, presentations, and a small number of exams.", 'Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Placements
s Service, Lincolnshire Partnership Foundation Trust, North East Lincolnshire Council, and North Lincolnshire Council. We encourage applications from students who hold a UK driving licence as Lincolnshire spans a wide geographical area. Non-driving students may be subject to fewer placement opportunities. Please also note that you may be required to travel to up to an hours travelling time of their home address.", 'Research
s Research Excellence Framework submission return demonstrated high-quality research spanning a number of areas - particularly around social work and social policy. Our research interests cover all aspects of the sector and Professor Mo Rays research has focused on social work with older people, social gerontology, and health and social care.", 'Guest Speakers
To enhance your learning, you may be able to hear from guest speakers, including those with lived experience of using services and carers, social work practitioners, and guest academics.
What Can I Do with a Social Work Degree?
Graduates will be well-placed to gain employment as registered social workers in the public, private, or voluntary sectors. The University of Lincoln is a member of the Humber Social Work Teaching Partnership, meaning students will be able to make the most of this partnership in their future careers.

Entry Requirements 2024-25
Entry Requirements
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points
T Level: Merit
A combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTEC, EPQ etc
Applicants will also need three GCSEs at grades 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Other requirements include:
- EU and International students whose first language is not English will require English Language IELTS 6.5 with no less than 5.5 in each element.http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/englishrequirements- Successful performance at an interview- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the nature of nursing in a public health context- Understanding of written material and can communicate clearly and accurately in written and spoken English- Resident in the United Kingdom for at least three years- Satisfactory completion of Occupational Health Check- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) (formerly the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB)).
When you choose Social Work Practice in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions. Here you must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs.
Further information can be found at http://www.isa-gov.org.uk. 
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A levels or equivalent qualifications.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Distinction, Merit.
T Level: Merit.
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall.
s:  Minimum of three at grades 4 or above, which must include English and Maths. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.
We may consider work experience alongside academic qualifications and will review this on and individual basis.
Certificates of all previous qualifications will need to be provided before any offers are confirmed.
International
_______________________
Additional requirements:
-  This course is not open for overseas applicants.- In order to be eligible to apply, applicants born outside of the UK must have settled residential status.
- Successful performance at an interview- Knowledge of contemporary health and social care issues, and the nature of nursing in a public health context.- Understanding of written material and can communicate clearly and accurately in written and spoken English.- Satisfactory completion of Occupational Health Check- Satisfactory completion of an Enhanced Disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) (formerly the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB)).
When you choose Social Work Practice in your UCAS application, you will be asked an additional question regarding criminal convictions. Here you must declare all spent and unspent criminal convictions including (but not limited to) cautions, reprimands, final warnings, bind over orders or similar and details of any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs.
Further information can be found at http://www.isa-gov.org.uk. 
We are not accepting deferred applications for Nursing, Midwifery, Paramedic Science, Diagnostic Radiography or Social Work. You must apply in the year you wish to start the programme.
________________________
Non UK Qualifications:
- If you are now settled in the UK, and do not have GCSE English, you will require English Language IELTS 7.0 with no less than 6.5 in each element: http://www.lincoln.ac.uk/englishrequirements
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications.
https://www.lincoln.ac....irementsandyourcountry/
For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page.
https://www.lincoln.ac....shlanguagerequirements/
________________________If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contextual Offers
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
NHS social work bursaries may be available to applicants, depending on varying criteria. For more information, please visit https://www.gov.uk/social-work-bursaries
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
NHS social work bursaries may be available to applicants, depending on varying criteria. For more information, please visit https://www.gov.uk/social-work-bursaries
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BSc (Hons) Health and Social Care

BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Adult)

BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Child)

BSc (Hons) Nursing (Registered Nurse - Mental Health)



