Technical Theatre and Stage Management
 | BA (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
Validation Status
Subject to Revalidation
UCAS Code
W453
Academic Year
BA (Hons) Technical Theatre and Stage Management is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills to pursue a career in the live arts, entertainment, and events industry. The programme focuses on developing theatre professionals with a theoretical and vocational understanding of theatre industry roles and responsibilities, including academic knowledge and practical experience of the following subjects: stage management; stage lighting; live audio; design for the stage; health and safety; and the technical standards for places of entertainment. 
The Technical Theatre and Stage Management programme takes a forward-facing approach to technical theatre, promotes exploration of new practices and technologies, teaches the fundamentals of the industry, and balances vocational training with academic study. 
This degree has been designed to develop industry techniques and to nurture the next generation of highly competent industry professionals, with the opportunity to gain knowledge and experience working in a number of professional theatre settings. 
Students have regular access to the Lincoln Arts Centre, a well-equipped, multi-functional venue with a professional theatre and multiple studio spaces. The theatre presents a varied programme of live performance and events throughout the year. Please see www.lincolnartscentre.co.uk for more information.
Why Choose Lincoln

Subject area ranked in the top 20 in the UK*

Learn from staff who are experienced in the industry

Collaborate creatively with students across the arts 

Opportunities to undertake additional training and qualifications 

Extracurricular activities to develop skills and experience 

Access to industry-standard facilities at the on-campus public theatre 
*Guardian University Guide 2024 (out of 84 ranking institutions).
How You Study
The course has three key strands to its delivery: practical/vocational study, design, and academic study. Across these three areas students can study and learn in a variety of environments including practical workshops, rehearsals, seminars, and lectures.
This course is designed to give students the opportunity to explore potential career paths, whether the goal is to become a stage manager, designer, or a creative technician. Alongside the course modules, Lincoln Arts Centre offers the chance to gain valuable practical experience in preparation for a career in technical theatre.  Students can gain an understanding of the history of technical theatre and past practices, in addition to developing their knowledge of the evolving industry trends and contemporary techniques. The course promotes a forward-facing digital culture and the development of new forms of theatrical experience.  This programme includes a diverse array of technical theatre topics, developing students to become creative technicians adaptable to possible industry changes and aware of the latest in theatre technology.
Contact time can be in workshops, practical sessions, seminars, or lectures and may vary from module to module and from academic year to year. Tutorial sessions and project supervision can take the form of one-to-one engagement or small group sessions. Some courses offer the opportunity to take part in external visits and fieldwork.
It is still the case that students read for a degree and this means that in addition to scheduled contact hours, students are required to engage in independent study. This allows you to read around a subject and to prepare for lectures and seminars through wider reading, or to complete follow up tasks such as assignments or revision. As a general guide, the amount of independent study required by students at the University of Lincoln is that for every hour in class you are expected to spend at least two to three hours in independent study.
The course is designed to give you plenty of opportunities to develop core practical skills in Technical Theatre and Stage Management. Throughout your time at University, you will spend time working with our professional staff and independently in a host of environments including (but not limited to) stage spaces, workshops, rehearsal rooms, and design/creative labs.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
Approved Course
The course is approved by the Stage Management Association of the United Kingdom.
How you are assessed
As this course aims to develop a wide range of practical and intellectual skills, assessment is varied and includes presentations, written projects, individual and group practical work, projects and portfolios, in addition to academic essays. 
There are no formal end-of-year examinations. Students are assessed through their production of practical and written work throughout the degree. The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as practical exams through performance observations; written assignments, reports or dissertations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year.
Specialist Facilities
Additional Training and Qualifications
The Technical Theatre and Stage Management programme offers additional training, such as courses in pyrotechnic operation, use of access equipment, and other industry-relevant training.
Additional courses and training opportunities are made available as extracurricular activities and may be subject to additional costs. Where these are compulsory, the cost for the course, travel, accommodation, and meals may be covered by the University and so is included in the fee. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their course, travel, accommodation, and meal costs.
Industry Expertise
From designers and scenic artists to stage managers and technicians, there are plenty of opportunities to benefit from guest industry professionals who visit the University. The course also aims to connect students to professional affiliated bodies, and regularly hosts industry conferences, symposiums, and trade shows.
Studying at Lincoln has helped me gain a wide range of professional contacts from across the country, these links have led to work opportunities in my specific area of interest.
Ellie Carney
BA Technical Theatre and Stage Management
What Can I Do with a Technical Theatre and Stage Management Degree?
The course aims to prepare students for a spectrum of potential careers, including production design, stage management, programming for the stage, live audio engineering, venue management, lighting design for live events, and production management.
One of our graduates Ellie Carney has worked as a freelance stage manager across her first year after her degree and is currently working on the national tour of Kenwright Productions' Blood Brothers.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects.
BTEC Extended Diploma: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
T Level: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International

Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/ for information on equivalent qualifications. 
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/


For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Arts Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/afyafyub/ 

If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk
Contextual Offers
Interviews
As part of the admissions process, applicants are required to attend an interview day with tutors from the Lincoln School of Creative Arts. The interview day consists of a short interview and a taster workshop.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
For each course, students may find that there are additional costs. These may be with regard to the specific clothing, materials or equipment required, depending on their subject area. Some courses provide opportunities for students to undertake fieldwork or field trips. Where these are compulsory, the cost for the travel, accommodation and meals may be covered by the University and so is included in the fee. Where these are optional students will normally (unless stated otherwise) be required to pay their own transportation, accommodation and meal costs. 
Students must purchase their own PPE required for workshop sessions. 
s Edinburgh Festival Fringe performances, there are additional costs. Students are currently required to contribute 150 towards the cost of attending the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and are responsible for their travel and general living costs. The University covers accommodation costs in Edinburgh. An approximate break down of these costs includes 570 for travel, accommodation and a levy to participate, and an additional 200-400 to cover the cost of meals and entertainment during the trip. These costs are based on those incurred by individual students during the 2015 performances.", 'Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Dance

BA (Hons) Drama and English

BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre and Performance

BA (Hons) Music

BA (Hons) Musical Theatre

BA (Hons) Sound and Music Production

Explore Related Courses

BA (Hons) Dance

BA (Hons) Drama and English

BA (Hons) Drama, Theatre and Performance

BA (Hons) Music

BA (Hons) Musical Theatre

BA (Hons) Sound and Music Production



