Zoology
 | BSc (Hons) | University of Lincoln

Course Menu
Key Information
Duration
3 years (4 years if taken with the optional sandwich year)
Typical Offer
See More
Campus
Brayford Pool
UCAS Code
C300
Academic Years
The study of zoology is an exploration of how animals have evolved, how they function, and the ways in which they interact with their environment. The subject integrates anatomy, physiology, behaviour, ecology, evolution, and conservation to provide a comprehensive understanding of species structure and diversity. Humans have created a rapidly-changing world to which animals have had to adapt. Understanding the amazing diversity of animals that share our planet helps us to understand our origins, as well as predict future evolution.
Zoology at Lincoln is taught by research-active staff who specialise in a wide range of disciplines. The degree aims to provide a broad understanding of the subject, encompassing the study of key aspects of modern zoology in a diverse range of invertebrates and vertebrates. Students have opportunities to study animals in their natural habitat at key points during their studies.
Students can participate in a residential field trip in the UK, enabling them to study animals in the wild. For core UK-based field trips the University will cover costs of transport, accommodation, and meals at the field site. There is also an optional Overseas Field Course module in the final year.
Students can participate in a residential field trip in the UK, enabling them to study animals in the wild. For UK-based field trips the University will cover costs of transport, accommodation, and meals at the field site. There is also an optional Overseas Field Course module in the final year.
Why Choose Lincoln
Subject area ranked in the top 10 for student satisfaction*
Optional overseas field trip to locations around the world
Optional placement year
Taught by experienced research-active staff
Fully-funded residential field trip in the UK
*Complete University Guide 2024 (out of 96 ranking institutions)
How You Study
This degree is designed to develop a broad understanding of the subject, encompassing the study of key aspects of modern zoology in a diverse range of vertebrates and invertebrates. Throughout the course, students have the chance to develop skills in scientific methods and communication. There is also an opportunity for students to gain professional experience by undertaking a placement year, between the second and third year of their studies.
In the first year, students will have the opportunity to develop a broad understanding of biological concepts, including genetics, evolution, ecology, anatomy, and physiology.
During the second year, more specialist modules cover vertebrate and invertebrate zoology, reproduction and development, and plant-animal interactions. Students can choose from a selection of optional modules to align their studies with areas of particular interest.
There is an emphasis on independent research in the final year and students will be expected to undertake a substantial research project, as well as modules that aim to develop critical scientific skills.
Teaching is a mixture of lectures, seminars, and practical sessions in the laboratory or in field situations. Other forms of teaching will include discussions and debates and written tasks. These will vary from module to module.
Modules
 Some courses may offer optional modules. The availability of optional modules may vary from year to year and will be subject to minimum student numbers being achieved. This means that the availability of specific optional modules cannot be guaranteed. Optional module selection may also be affected by staff availability.
What You Need to Know
We want you to have all the information you need to make an informed decision on where and what you want to study. In addition to the information provided on this course page, our What You Need to Know page offers explanations on key topics including programme validation/revalidation, additional costs, contact hours, and our return to face-to-face teaching.
How you are assessed
The way students are assessed on this course may vary for each module. Examples of assessment methods that are used include coursework, such as written assignments, reports or dissertations; practical exams, such as presentations, performances or observations; and written exams, such as formal examinations or in-class tests. The weighting given to each assessment method may vary across each academic year. The University of Lincoln aims to ensure that staff return in-course assessments to students promptly.
Overseas Field Trip
There is an optional overseas field trip in the third year. This will provide the opportunity to do research in a novel environment and to study local plants and animals. Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, andMolise in Italy.
Optional field trips may incur additional costs, including flights. Students may also be required to pay for overnight stays, local travel, and food close to the destination if their flights arrive the day before the team are scheduled to meet.Students may bring personal items of clothing and travel equipment, some of which may be specialised for the environment they are travelling to, and recommended medicines and travel toiletries such as anti-malaria medication, vaccinations, insect repellent and sunscreen. These costs will depend on what you choose to bring.
Alongside a fully funded residential field trip in the UK, students on this course can take part in an optional overseas field trip in the third year.
Destinations may vary, but have previously included the cloud forests of Ecuador, the Mankwe Wildlife Reserve in South Africa, and Molise in Italy.
On each trip students are introduced to local flora and fauna, present a group project, and complete an identification test of plants, vertebrates, and invertebrates.
Optional Placement Year
All full-time students on this course may take an optional placement year between the second and third year of the programme. While these placements are student-led, you will be continuously supported by academic staff throughout. Placements provide the opportunity to gain workplace experience and a chance to hone your skills in a professional environment.While you are on an optional placement in the UK, you will be required to cover your own transport, accommodation, and meals costs.
I have had the chance to experience things that most people never will. The staff are very passionate about their work and about passing on their knowledge.
Charlotte Winspear
MBio Zoology graduate
What Can I Do with a Zoology Degree?
Career opportunities for Zoology graduates may include teaching, environmental consultancy, conservation, and science journalism. Graduates may choose to continue their studies at postgraduate level or pursue a career in research.
Ibrahim Sawal
BSc (Hons) Zoology graduate
Ibrahim Sawal graduated in 2018 with a BSc (Hons) in Zoology. He stayed on in Lincoln to study an MA in Journalism (Science and Environment), and he was able to secure an internship at New Scientist. Now a member of the New Scientist journalist team, Ibrahim regularly contributes articles to the printed magazine and online.
Entry Requirements 2024-25
United Kingdom
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels to include 40 points from Biology.
International Baccalaureate: Pass Diploma from a minimum of 2 Higher Level subjects to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology 
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management/Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit or equivalent.
*not all modules are accepted. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
BTEC Diploma Applied Science acceptable with other qualifications. Please contact our Admissions team for further information (admissions@lincoln.ac.uk).
T Level in Science accepted.  Health or Health Science NOT accepted: Merit
Access to Higher Education Diploma: 45 Level 3 credits with a minimum of 104 UCAS Tariff points including 40 points from 15 credits in Biology.
Applicants will also need at least three GCSEs at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.
The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We will also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
International
Non UK Qualifications:
If you have studied outside of the UK, and are unsure whether your qualification meets the above requirements, please visit our country pages for information on equivalent qualifications:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/entryrequirementsandyourcountry/
EU and Overseas students will be required to demonstrate English language proficiency equivalent to IELTS 6.0 overall, with a minimum of 5.5 in each element. For information regarding other English language qualifications we accept, please visit the English Requirements page:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/englishlanguagerequirements/
If you do not meet the above IELTS requirements, you may be able to take part in one of our Pre-sessional English and Academic Study Skills courses.
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/studywithus/internationalstudents/englishlanguagerequirementsandsupport/pre-sessionalenglishandacademicstudyskills/
For applicants who do not meet our standard entry requirements, our Science Foundation Year can provide an alternative route of entry onto our full degree programmes:
https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/course/sfysfyub/lifesciences/
If you would like further information about entry requirements, or would like to discuss whether the qualifications you are currently studying are acceptable, please contact the Admissions team on 01522 886097, or email admissions@lincoln.ac.uk.
Contextual Offers
Entry Requirements 2025-26
104 UCAS Tariff points from a minimum of 2 A Levels or equivalent to include 40 points from Biology.
BTEC Extended Diploma in Animal Management or Applied Science*: Distinction, Merit, Merit.(*not all modules are accepted).
T Level in Science accepted: Merit. (Health or Health Science not accepted).
International Baccalaureate: 28 points overall to include a Higher Level 5 in Biology
s:  Minimum of three at grade 4 or above, which must include English, Maths and Science. Equivalent Level 2 qualifications may also be considered.", 'The University accepts a wide range of qualifications as the basis for entry and do accept a combination of qualifications which may include A Levels, BTECs, EPQ etc.  
We may also consider applicants with extensive and relevant work experience and will give special individual consideration to those who do not meet the standard entry qualifications.
Fees and Scholarships
s important to understand the costs involved and the funding options available before you start. A full breakdown of the fees associated with this programme can be found on our course fees pages.", 'For eligible undergraduate students going to university for the first time, scholarships and bursaries are available to help cover costs. To help support students from outside of the UK, we are also delighted to offer a number of international scholarships which range from 1,000 up to the value of 50 per cent of tuition fees. For full details and information about eligibility, visit our scholarships and bursaries pages.
Find out More by Visiting Us
Explore Related Courses
BSc (Hons) Biology
Biology - MBio 
BSc (Hons) Bioveterinary Science
MBio Bioveterinary Science
BSc (Hons) Animal Behaviour and Welfare
MBio Animal Behaviour and Welfare
MBio Zoology
